Help on:
	*CNAME

This command allows you to set various attributes about a given 
creature. There are several switches which can be used which are
explained below.

Syntax: *cname (mob) [#] -(switch) (information)

Switch Descriptions:
-A: Sets the aggro attack string, which an aggro monster will say
    before attacking.

-d: Sets the monster's description.

-t: Sets the monster's talk string.

-tt: Sets what a monster says after a successful trade.

-k(1-3): Sets the monster's keys by which it can be referenced.
         For example: the keys for a large spider would be large
                      and spider, k1 and k2 respectively.
                      :*cname clay -k1 large
                      :*cname clay -k2 spider
         DO NOT EVER USE CAPITAL LETTERS IN KEY NAMES.

-a(1-3): Sets a monster's attack strings (not to be confused with
         the aggro attack string above). This defines how a monster
         will hit you for damage. In the past, a monster always "hit"
         you for x damage all the time. Now it can be customized.
         For example: If you want a mob to claw, slash, and mangle 
                      you would set a1 to clawed, a2 to slashed, and
                      a3 to mangled.
                      :*cname clay -a1 clawed
                      :*cname clay -a2 slashed
                      :*cname clay -a3 mangled
         ALWAYS put your attack strings in the PAST tense.

-m(1-3): Sets a monsters movement type. Monsters used to only just
         "wander" everywhere. Now they can have custom movement
         verbs. 
         For example: To make a monster stroll, saunder, and
                      trot, you would set m1 to strolled, m2 to
                      saundered, and m3 to trotted.
                      :*cname clay -m1 strolled
                      :*cname clay -m2 saundered
                      :*cname clay -m3 trotted
         ALWAYS put your movement strings in the PAST tense.           
              

Note that setting any switch to 0 will clear the contents therein.
For example: If I wanted to clear a monster's talk string, I'd type:
             :*cname (monster) -t 0
             Talk string cleared.
             The same goes for everything else but the keys. For keys,
             we dont need to erase them, just rename them if necessary.

If you have any further questions, ask a CT or DM.




