ABADDON FACTION SYSTEM

The faction system here is very much similar (practically stolen from)
the one from Everquest. What it basically does is create a mechanism
for putting mobs into groups (called factions) to organize them around
other mobs with similary likes/dislikes or political interests. For
instance, there is a strong rivalry (sometimes hatred) between The
Highport Guard and The Sigil Inquisitors. Depending how much a certain
mob is LIKED by a faction set on it, the higher (more positive) its 
faction rating for that faction will be. Similarly, the more a mob is 
DISLIKED by a particular faction set, the lower (more negative) its 
faction rating for that faction will be. 
Example:
Faction #2 is The Highport Guard.
A normal Highport guardsmen would therefore have +500 or so in faction
#2. The leader of the Highport guard (Orik the Guard Captian) would
have like +9000 set on him for faction #2, since The Highport guard 
likes him more. On the same note, since The Sigil Inquisitors are
disliked by The Highport Guard, an inquisitor would have -500 or so
set for faction #2. Sigil's grand inquisitor would have a -4500 or so
set on him, because to kill the leader of The Sigil Inquisitors, a
player would be doing The Highport Guard a service.

This is extremely multi-dimensional. There are 255 total factions
possible in the game right now, and each mob can have all 255 
factions set on them if necessary.

When designing mobs and setting their factions (if they are part
of one), you must know (have planned) these things:
1) What is the mob's primary faction? (who is he most loyal to)
2) How valueable is the mob to it's primary faction?
   The more valuable, the more positive the value for that faction
   needs to be set on him.
3) What factions LIKE the primary faction the mob is in, and how
   much?
   These faction #'s would be set to POSITIVE values - the more liked,
   the more positive.
4) What factions DISLIKE the primary faction the mob is in, and how 
   much?
   These faction #s would be set to NEGATIVE values - the less liked, 
   the more negative.

When setting faction values on mobs, there are some benchmarks to
consider. You can see these in *dmh factionsettings for reference:
Between -1001 and -7000, a mob will not trust. For example, shopkeeps
wont sell things to that player.
Between -7001 and -9000, a mob will randomly attack.
Between -9001 and -32000, a mob will automatically aggro.

A mob ONLY CARES ABOUT THE VALUE OF HIS PRIMARY FACTION.
So if a player is hanging out around a Highport guardsman,
and has -10000 in his faction #2 (The Highport Guard), and
since that is the HP guardsman's primary faction, he will
auto aggro that player.

Players' factions change as they kill things. If a player kills a
Highport guardsman, for example, and that HP guardsman has a faction
value of +450 in The Highport Guard, then the player's setting for
"The Highport Guard" will drop 450. In the same regards, however,
since that HP guard probably had -450 set for "The Sigil Inquisitors",
since "The Sigil Inquisitors" dont like The Highport Guard,
the player would go UP 450 in his "The Sigil Inquisitors" faction.

Multiple factions can be set on mobs, making this extremely 
interesting.

SYNTAX
To set a faction on a mob, you use the *set command.
Examples:
To set any faction#:
:*set c high fa 2 450
Faction 2 set to 450
To set primary faction#:
:*set c high pr 2
Prime faction set to The Highport Guard (2)

Useful reference files are:
*dmh faction (to see factions set on mobs)
*dmh factionsettings (to see cut-off values)
*dmh factionlist (this lists all factions and their #s)

If you have any further questions, please ask Verithrax or Bane.
