Area: Goblin Caverns (no name yet)
Races starting here: Goblin
Location: Upper Bloodmound Hills
Builder: Draegoth
Size: 100 rooms
Note: typing "help goblins" will assist.

GENERAL
   This area needs to be totally underground, with maybe a
tower or something, or old ruins above ground at the entrance,
either of which would be heavily guarded. The "evil dwarves"
are always up to something fishy, and it could be bad.
The interior is a conglomerate of different levels of caves
and caverns. The more powerful the goblin, the better the
area of the caverns he/she lives in. Even though the caves
seem somewhat chaotic inside (meaning use a lot of diagonal
directions and non-directional exits), they are actually quite
organized. Each area of the cavern will be under the control of
a single barracks, led by a goblin commander. This commander
can be either a warrior or a shaman that scares the crap out of
everyone in his section. All section commanders plot schemes
in a goblin-like manner to move up more in the King's favor.
Women and children stay in sectioned off areas (women
USUALLY dont fight as males do, but when defending their young,
they are worth 2-3 goblin warriors, so they should be tough).
Goblins have wargs which help them patrol the caves, and their
traps usually always involve ambush rather then clever
mechanical-like devices (as kobolds would have). There will
be a central underground water source somewhere also. There
is also a waste cave where all the goblins go to take a dump.
Of course, it has a problem with carrion crawlers and dung rats,
which always plagues the goblin section commanders...
PRIMARY GOD(S)
   Goblins will worship whomever can kick their ass, but only
if that figure is evil in nature. For instance, there might
be a devine clergy built around the head Shaman or the king,
or the local contingent of the cult of Aramon has them
scared shitless, etc...
GOVERNMENT
   The biggest goblin that can beat everyone else's ass is
always the king. This doesnt mean he's a warrior all the time,
either. He usually has several trusted bodyguards (which means
he has blackmail material on them, or is holding their
family hostage so they wont try to kill him) around him at
all times. If the king is a warrior, he will take much
council from the head goblin shaman, as goblins are very very
superstitous. The king needs to be difficult to kill.
TRAINING
   Assassin- Goblin assassins are coniving sneaky little bastards.
They tend to be very good at the trade, as not many people take
them as seriously as they should. Assassinating your superior
(or framing him) is the way to advance in goblin society. Goblin
assassins will have a small complex to level in where they can
reach up to level 10. Only goblins can train there. No other races
can. There is no guild, only a hang-out place where the nastiest
goblin assassins go to hang out and train.
   Berserker- Goblin berserkers are the centerpiece of the goblin
armies. They tend to be extremely rabid and large for goblins,
and they always smell of putrid old-smelling watered down wine.
They tend to puke in battle a lot - on their opponents. Goblin
berserkers can level up to level 10 in the goblin caverns. After
that they have to go somewhere else, like Garakk (see below).
   Fighter- Goblins are primarily fighters more than anything
else. There is a rather large complex where goblins can train
up to level 10. After that they have to go to Garakk (see below).
   Shaman- Goblin shaman are feared throughout Derlith. They
often command very strange superstitious powers and can place
curses on people at a whim. The goblin shaman system is very
rigid and heirarchial. There is no shaman school, but there is
an area of "servitude" where potential goblin shaman agree to
be tortured, be part of experiments, test new poison potions,
fight conjured spirits, etc..in order to prove their worthiness
to the shaman above them. Goblin shaman can level all the way
to 30 in the goblin caverns...ONLY goblins are allowed.
   Thief- Goblin thieves are very good at what they do. As goblin
society is basically a bunch of coniving thieves, brutes, and
bandits, this is not suprising. There is a very powerful
thieves' guild (goblins admitted only) in the goblin caverns.
Goblin thieves can level up to level 12 in the goblin caverns.
After that they have to go someplace else to get higher.
SUGGESTED NEWBIE KILLING MOB IDEAS
  The possibilities here are endless in the outer caverns.
cave spiders(1-2), dung rats(1), huge spiders(2-3), rock snakes(2),
etc....use of the monster manual can help here quite a bit, so
long as the levels of the mobs are translated into mordor right.
SPECIAL:
  Goblins players starting out in the goblin caverns need to
stay in the goblin caves at least until they are level 5. So,
instead of a restriction of 2+ level to get out of there area,
it needs to be 5+ on all exits leading out of the area to the
rest of Derlith.
  All banks and post-offices are goblin-only to enter.

