RoH V1 Plans

OK until we are able to build on V2, we need to do some
things on V1. Here is a list of them. If anyone has very
specific questions, mudmail me and ask about them.

MINI-QUESTS: These are quests that are little things
and result in like 25-200exp. An example would be
finding Igmoo's lost fish and trading it to him or
something after talking to him, or finding a wedding
ring for a farmer's wife in Hampton which was stolen
by dopplegangers in Kenner...etc..little things like
these to give players something to do besides just
killing random shit and getting exp all day. We need
to add some of these in. 

Run mini-quest ideas by me in mudmail.


1) Bergen Cove needs to be spiced up.
   Perms need to be added. Some items need to be
   added to shops. Perhaps even a mini-quest or
   two needs to be put in there. Draegoth has
   already started messing with this some.

2) Drakken Port needs to be gone through with a fine
   toothed comb.
   When finn made Drakken, he made none of the mobs or
   perms have stats (they all have 10s in everything).
   He also made it perm-run heaven. Now I dont mind
   there being some perm run stuff in place, but not
   a whole city. Also several of his mobs do not have
   the block mflag set(#9). These and many other things
   need to be fixed in Drakken. Items can be added to
   shops, like common potions, types of bandages, maybe
   poisons sold (expensive) in the assassin's guild
   there. I'd also like all the mobs in the town to be
   *balanced so they are all standard. In short, the
   main thing is that all the mobs need to be checked,
   and maybe some of the perms modified, or some new
   ones added.

3) Breakwater Point needs to be looked at.
   Same type stuff as Drakken above.

4) Sigil's mobs and perms need to be checked out.
   finn didnt set any stats on them and some of them
   dont block. The town can be spiced up some too.
   A couple mini-quests would be good.

5) Naimei needs to be spiced some also.
   Some mini-quests would be good.

6) The Papagayo, Ironclad, and Seawolf all need to
   have their mobs and perms checked for stats and for 
   block flags. The mobs should be *balanced too. In
   most cases this should result in increased exp for
   the mob. If players bitch they are stupid.

7) Armor needs to be developed, but I dont want whole
   sets dropping all in one area or from just a couple
   mobs, and if it's good armor, I dont want it sold
   in shops. Shop armor, unless it's HELLA EXPENSIVE,
   needs to be ok, but with some drawback: like it's
   too heavy, low shots, sized or class/race specific,
   etc. Basically, if you have an idea for a set of
   armor, run its stats by me, where u want each piece
   to drop, etc..Same thing with weapons.

8) We need to put in all the spells in:
   *dmh qspells. Run your ideas by me in mudmail.

9) Somebody needs to revamp or add to The Druidwood.
   It's pretty damn boring the way it is right now.

10) Eldenwood needs to be finished. Kerowen started it,
    but she's gone. It's in the Meadhil. Please note that
    Meadhil has only one L at the end. finn always used
    to fuck that up.

11) Gnomebarrow needs to be reopened. Dominus is working
    on this already. Put in a couple mini-quests.

12) Ideas for other small areas (read NO MORE THAN 20
ROOMS) can be thought up. Run them by me.

