Roh is purging at 11:59pm EST, October 28th.
Roh is opening at 8:00pm EST, October 31st.

	As most of you probably have already guessed, we are going
to be purging the players in order to get everyone a fresh start.
The reasons behind this vary, but we feel it is in the best
interest of RoH right now. We have been up almost 1.5 years now.
In that time, we have altered and changed alot of stuff. Only
in the last 3-4 months have we stopped messing with things and
"let it ride" so to say. Other than a few things (listed below),
we feel the game is very stable and balanced right now, and we
will be mostly working on building new areas and quests and
adding new spells for a while.

	Here is a general list of some of the things which will
be altered:
1) Monks will receive 5hp/level. (not 6)
2) Wolves will receive 6hp/level. (not 7)
3) Monks and wolves will both vig/mend like fighters.
4) Monks will be allowed to meditate slightly more often.
5) Damage done by monks is going to be put back to old RoH values.
   Right now it's old Isengard values (way too high).
6) Monks will do more damage with kick (exact same as fighters).
7) Monks and wolves will both be effected more by radical alignment
   by missing more often and having a worse AC. For example, if you
   are too royal blue, your AC will get worse, and your thac0 will
   get worse. Focus and Frenzy will fail more often also. Same if 
   you are too crimson.
8) Rogues will be going back to 5hp/level.
9) Rogue thac0s will be made slightly better.
10) Argon (rogue training) will only need +2 weapons to hit.
11) Strength and Dex will be important to monks.
12) Monks wont ever be able to hit +3 mobs again w/o a +3 weapon.
13) Classes which normally don't cast will have slightly
    higher chance to fail casting - it will be more class
    based and less based on intelligence stat.
14) Backstab damage for thieves and assasins will be slightly
    increased.
15) Ceris clerics will be in the game.
    Powers:
    - vig/mend bonus
    - turn bonus(+2 levels)
    - rejuvinate spell (level 10) (HELP REJUVINATE)
    - ressurrect spell (level 19) (HELP RESSURRECT)
    Specifics:
    - Must remain neutral.
    - Blunt and pole weapons only.
    - Light armor only.
16) All clerics will choose god at character creation. Your
    god will no longer be a clan. Changing gods will not be
    possible (yet).
17) Berserkers are getting an extra con bonus to HP at con 7.
18) Berserkers will not be able to cast.
19) Berserkers will be able to kick.
20) Cleaving weapon proficiency will be added.
21) Stats will be x10..i.e. a stat of 10 will be 100.
    This is so we can add + items to stats. So you could get
    bracers that have a property that increases dex by +2. 
    So your dex would be 182 and not 180, for example. You will
    still choose stats at creation the same as now. The game
    will just multiply them by 10 when your character is made.
22) Many other behind-the-scenes changes will be made, most of
    which wont immediately effect anybody, and will make room
    to add new features later over time.

	Note that this is the MAX that can be expected to happen.
Some of these things may still not occur, and are being debated by
the staff still.
-RoH Staff

