Builder Policies

1) Read the Realms Policy. All rules in there apply to you.

2) Do NOT change any rooms that already exist. You are only allowed
to modify rooms that are in YOUR set. If you change any rooms that
are not assigned to you in the list room, you will be fired.

3) In order to remain a builder, you must meet all deadlines which
are imposed upon you, if any. We promise these deadlines will be
realistic, and they're in place so we don't have areas that go
uncompleted and sit around for years (it's happened in the past).

4) Builder characters are not allowed in any open part of the mud
unless ordered there by a DM or CT which is online. There are two
reasons for this:

    a) We don't want you changing existing rooms in the mud, and
       this is the simplest way to enforce this.
    b) We don't want you interacting with players in any way, and
       again, this is the easiest way to enforce this.

5) You may not interact with the players in ANY way with your builder
character. Your builder characters are for building. If you want to
talk to other players, log in a different character.

6) Do not tell players ANY information they cannot get through regular
play, either with your builder, OR with ANY of your other
players. This is pretty cut and dry....

7) If you have completed your area, do NOT open it to the rest of the
mud. A DM must look over your area before it can be opened to the
public. Keep in mind, as a builder, you can't make mobs, and none of
you can make objects, so your areas will never be ready to open until
all mobs are made, objects are put in, and the area is approved
ultimately by a DM.

8) Do not tell anyone you have a builder character. This is mainly
for your own protection, because if you tell players you have a
builder, they will bug you to death trying to get you to do stuff
for them. It will cause a political mess that we don't want to deal
with.

9) Do not leave your assigned area without the expressed permission
of a DM or CT which is currently online. If you do so, it will be
logged, and you might have some explaining to do. If you want to talk
to another builder, then use send/tell or *msg. That is what
they are there for.

10) As per number 5 above, do not divulge ANY information you gain
while online as a builder to players EVER. This includes
ANYTHING the DMs or CTs say or do, and anything you might learn. Being
a builder makes you privilege to this information, as you
are part of the staff now. Do not break this trust, or it will be
proven that you cannot be relied upon, and you will most likely be
fired.

11) NO MATTER WHAT happens to your player character, NEVER log on your
builder with the sole purpose of talking to DMs/CTs. Your
builder is for building, it's not a means which to bitch
at the staff because something happens to your player. NOTHING
aggravates the DMs more then people who have done this in the past,
aside from something like crashing the game.

12) Builders may not share characters, sell them, or
give them away at any time. As a builder you are able
to receive rewards for completing areas. These rewards most often
make your character level easier or higher. Because of this, we do
not allow you to sell, share, or give away any of your characters,
as the people you sell/share/give them to did NOT build for us to
main the rewards which helped you. This is even the case between two
builders, as we do not want to bother keeping track of that. If you
wish to quit a character, either keep it and dont use it, or suicide
it.


As a builder, if you break ANY of these rules, you could be
immediately fired. If you are fired you will NOT be rehired under
ANY circumstances. These rules are very sensible, and thought out.
We want a balanced, fun mud, and these rules are just guidelines to
help us achieve this goal. We cannot tolerate people who will break
these rules.

Note that this policy is not set in stone, and it can change at any
time. The word of the DMs is law. Just because something isn't written
in this document for some reason, does not mean it is ok to ignore a
direction from a DM.

(Last update, 15/02/03)


