RoH Staff Prime Directives

1) Do not interfere with players' gameplay.
2) Do not have unnecessary contact with players - do not
   chat with them, do not tell them things - we are not their
   buddies.
3) Remain invisible at all times, unless policy requirements
   require you to identify yourself.
4) If you must talk to players, do not ever do it in a public
   area - bring them to your room. Keep it short and to the point.
5) Do not argue with players when they violate the policy. Just
   act on it: explain the situation, identify yourself if required
   to, and get the hell out of there. Do not give them a chance 
   to argue with you. You can't win.
6) Do not respond to player broadcasts in any way, unless such
   broadcasts require our obvious attention..ie a massive bug.
7) Caretakers and DMs do not play characters. Ever. Our job is
   to run the mud right now - not play it. If we ever get a bigger
   consistent amount of players on (i.e. 40+ all the time), then
   this might be changed.

	As has been proven time and again, contact with players, 
where they can begin to see us as "equals", will always cause us 
to lose out in the end, and lose players as a result. This is not
because players are stupid necessarily, or because we have been
tyrants, it is because we are people, and we have reactions too. 
We have been acting like players, with the exception that we have 
ultimate power. We are above players on this mud. This means we 
hold a position of sometimes worship, sometimes contempt. Both 
are bad. The way it needs to be is players just simply should not 
know what to expect from us, because they never deal with us. It's 
kind of like the addage where there's 20 guys in a bar, but you 
know all about each one of them, so you'd mess with them in a 
second. But this one guy with them, you dont know jack about him, 
so you're more cautious when dealing with him, because you have no
clue what to expect - and he never lets you get to know him, so
you never ever know what to expect. As a result, you "respect"
him when dealing with him, out of ignorance of him. 
	We cannot act like players. We will need to rely on our 
watchers to do the player to player interaction, since they ARE 
players. They are quasi-staff members who are liasons to us. They 
intercept all the stupid questions players have, and are the ones 
who tell the people asking them that they are stupid questions. 
They can get away with that. If we do it, we're "the asshole DMs 
on RoH". If they do it, then they are just "that dickhead". They 
are players' representatives to the staff, although not chosen by 
the players themselves.
