Drow elves are trained from about the age of 4 as to what
they will be, be it warrior, wizard, necromancer, or priestess,
or whatever else. They have uncanny dexterity and ultra fine
vision in the dark approaching darksight. They also will all
have minor magic resistance (*set c mob mr %), not going any
higher than 40%, depending on level. All drow weapons and 
armor(shadowmail) is magical from +1 to +4, depending. They 
are made of a black darkmetal which is forged in the deepest 
pits of the underdark. Forges for it have not yet been set up 
in Oakspire. Their equipment also cannot withstand direct 
sunlight, or it will decay over time. That is a property of 
the darkmetal. It is also feather heavy and is as impregnable
as adamantium.
	Drow organize in groups of 4-6 warriors which are
considered to be of patrol size. If any bigger than that,
for every extra group of 4-6, there will be a level 12 or
so mage with them, and if more than 3 of such groups are
encountered, there will be 2 mages and at least one priestess.
The highest level priestesses are called matron mothers, and
there is one for each drow noble house in the drow elven
city. Right now, there are only 3 noble houses in Oakspire,
all three of which are the top three houses in the Drow
city in the underdark, which has yet to be named. 
	The drow, with the blessing and magic granted by 
Arachnus, have managed to somewhat tame the doom spiders of 
the Darkhold. Before the Drow came to the surface and 
slaughtered most of the wood elves of Oakspire, the wood 
elven mages had the doom spiders magically sealed off from 
the surface world. The Drow broke those spells, thus also 
gaining the allegiance of the doom spider queen. The Drow
keep doom spiders in specially designed dark copses of trees
which are filled with funnels of dark spiderwebs. Doom
spiders are not very fond of the sunlight, and niether
are Drow. Specially trained Drow elven doom spider handlers
handle the spiders. The spiders are intelligent, and are
able to understand more than a german shepherd does, even
to the point of understanding and exexuting complex commands 
in the dark-elven tongue. Doom spiders are about the size
of a mastiff or irish wolfhound, but obviously wider.
	All Drow are ambidextrous and are able to fight
with two weapons, although they do not all choose to do
so as a fighting style. Typical Drow weapons are made
of darkmetal, and vay upon individual warrior style. Note
that even Drow wizards and priestesses are trained in
use of the sword, albeit not as much as warriors are. 
Rapiers, longswords, shortswords, scimitars, daggers,
and falchions are the most common drow swords. They
almost never use blunt weapons. Some warriors train 
with pole weapons, particularly shadow pikes, which are
deadly sharp darkmetal pikes with a taint of negative
energy forged into them. There are lances like this as
well, called darklances or death lances. Drow are also
well known for one-handed crossbows which lace arrows
with sleeping poison. They rarely use anything but these
crossbows for missile weapons. The absolute most commonly
known weapon in use by the Drow, however, is the dreaded
snake-head flail/maces and whips which priestesses of 
Arachnus wield, usually matron mothers. These dreaded 
weapons have living snakes which bite at the target with
poisonous fangs. Some of these are also tainted with
negative energy, as is the poison. Sometimes Drow wish
to immobilize and capture their enemies. To do this, they
use special wands which exude a sticky black gooey
substance, which will adhere to anything and shoots out
in a large blob, thus sticking enemies to walls, their
weapons, their own limbs, each other, etc..Trying to
break free of the substance causes damage to the person
captured, and only the Drow have the formula which can
dissolve the goo. Nothing is known which can cut it.


