RoH Builder and Creator Basics

	Welcome to the RoH Team! This file should help 
you become acclimated to how we do things here on RoH. 
It is broken up into a Builder section and a Creator 
section, and various sub-headings.

GENERAL INFO
	Depending on how well you did when we evaluated
you, you may either be a builder now or a creator. Each
different class is defined below, so we wont get into the
differences yet. The one thing you need to know right now,
is that you both abide by the same policy (*bh builderpol), 
you both use the same online help command (*bh), as well 
as the same channel communication command (*ms). No one 
can see when you log on/off - you cannot even see one 
another log on/off. In addition, you can never become 
visible to players or communicate with them. It is 
impossible to do so. Both classes also have room 
assignment restrictions, which limit where you can build 
and where you can go. There are some differences between 
the two classes regarding this - they will be covered below.

BUILDER AND CREATOR POLICY
	It is very important you become extremely
familiar with what you are and are not allowed to do.
Type *bh builderpol RIGHT NOW if you have not already.
You are responsible for knowing what is in this file
if you are to remain a builder or creator.

GETTING STARTED
	You should now be assigned to either a specific
CT or a specific DM. This is the person who will you
will report to, and who will finalize and approve your
area before it is opened to the general mud population.
Their word is law as far as this goes, so you must be
sure you communicate all you want to do with your area
with them at all times, and mudmail them without any
hesitation if you have any questions you need answered.
Do not mudmail them about anything other than building
related matters. They will not discuss your players
with you, or anything that happened to them.
	The first thing you need to do, if you do not
have any building experience or very little experience,
is to type *bh by itself. This will show you the list
of builder and creator help files you may access with
the *bh command. *bh builders will also help. Please 
look over any of the commands you are not familiar with 
and learn them. If you have questions, you may use the 
*ms to communicate both with other builders and creators,
as well as any CTs and DMs online who can assist you.
	You must also familiarize yourself with our
standardized building conventions by reading our
building conventions file (*bh standards). You will
be expected to adhere to these conventions or your
area will not be opened. Please look at this file now.
Alot of time can be wasted if you have to redo things
because these conventions were not maintained.

BUILDERS
	The function of a builder is quite simple. It is
to describe new rooms and areas. You may only do this
inside your assigned room area. You may also use *t
to teleport around within your assigned room range.
The CT or DM you are assigned to will know what your
room range is should you ever forget it. Your mission
is easy: discuss the area you wish to build (or in
some cases you are told what to build) with the CT/DM
you are assigned to, map out that room and skeleton it
by connecting all the exits to all the rooms, and then
finally describe each room, proofreading for typos and
grammatical errors. Your first task will always be a
small area of around 20 rooms or less. 

Promotion: Depending on how you do with your first 
couple areas will determine what you do in the future, 
as well as promotion to creator or beyond.

CREATORS
	A creator has all the responsibilities of a 
builder, but he/she also is able to do a couple more
things. For one, they are able to create monsters.
This is somewhat restricted, as you are not able to
set some monsters' characteristics yet. You have a
command you can use for this called "balance". Please
*bh balance now and read the file. Your movement is
also less restricted than that of a builder. In order
that one creator may help another builder or creator
verbally by observing work, you are not only allowed 
to *t within your assigned room range, you may also 
*t to any other builder or creator which is on when 
you are. Keep in mind you are only able to modify 
rooms and creatures within your assigned room range - 
you cannot even *stat a room or monster if it is not 
within your range. 
	Creators cannot create items. CTs and DMs only 
are able to do this. Upon completion of all the room 
descriptions and monsters to go into your area, you 
may confer with a CT/DM to get them to build the items 
you wish to have in the area as well as what drops them 
and where they are.

Promotion: Your next step beyond creator is caretaker.
Keep in mind that moving up to caretaker will require
not only outstanding dedication on your part, but you
will also have to sacrifice playing your characters, 
all of which will have to be suicided. This would have
to be done for security reasons. If you are willing
to work hard for us, and are willing to give up
playing, you will most likely eventually be made a
caretaker.

If you have any questions about this file, please 
ask the CT/DM you are assigned to via mudmail to help
you.
