

Yes folks! It has been ages since a new entry has been added to our
magnificent Wall of Shame...but alas! We have two idiots that broke
the mold to give us newfound entertainment! One of them you know as
Ignavus, the less-than-skilled player who tries to sound intelligent
all the time and fails, and the other is Clobber/Disaron, our favorite
toddler wannabe pkiller newbie - both, of course, are wannabe Abaddon
staff bashers...who would bash the keepers of our wall?! How dare they?!
Anyway...our latest incident materializes when for some unknown
reason, Miko, who was Ignavus' builder character, suddenly suicides.
Thirty minutes later, he logs on, claiming he doesn't know what
happened, and wants us to restore him. We informed him that a) he
had a stupid password "password01", and b) it was not our problem,
since he was suicided by Clobber, whom he knows. Clobber, the more 
brilliant of the two (which is like saying one slug is smarter than 
the other), denied vehemently that he did this, demanding proof from 
us. So in other words, my friends, "WTF?". We at the Abaddon staff keep 
many logs of things with much pride, and are more than happy to provide 
the necessary proof of our allegations of truth. Therefore, in our digging, 
we saw many many many things which linked Clobber to Ignavus, thus shining 
a magnificently bright light upon their idiotic lies and attempted deceit 
of their masters, us. A check of the logs revealed that Zeferis was the 
last to log on as the IP which suicided Miko. Zeferis was brought up to 
Ignavus, who of course claimed to not have any idea who that is. 
Later, Clobber comes up with the name of Zeferis by himself, claiming 
he didn't know who it was, and had never logged on as him. Further 
digging in our tome of divine logs revealed that Clobber has tried 
to log in as Zeferis in the past, before he supposedly had such
knowledge of the existence of Zeferis. Can Clobber predict the
future? Maybe..but no, he cannot. The truth is that he is most surely
the proverbial "lying sack of shit", and so is his neanderthal partner.

You see this was all hatched as some dastardly plan to make Abaddon 
staff to look bad as much as possible, making us out to be "assholes" 
because we wouldn't listen to little old "innocent" Ignavus. They even
screamed about this to high heaven on our forums, only to prove in the
end to everybody what idiots they truly are. Other than their combined 
small I.Qs, the reason they would do such a useless thing and waste their 
time (and ours!) is not really known. It turns out, my friends, that we
are much better without such morons in our midst. Maybe one day when
the two of them develope collective brains with higher intellectual
capacity than pond scum, we will welcome them back..until then, they
can piss off!
