....иииии.....иииии..../                                \....иииии.....иииии....
  и  .  .  и  и  .  .  |        Help on:  Clerics       |  .  .  и  и  .  .  и
ииии.....иииии.....ииии\                                /ииии.....иииии.....ииии

Clerics on Realms are all of different deities. You must choose which diety you
want at character creation. All clerics endeavor to increase the influence of
their diety in the world of Derlith. All clerics are able to pray to their diety
in order to get increased piety.

Clerics of Aramon
(HELP ARAMON)

Aramon is the god of deceit, the void, death, strife, and ambiguity. His sole
purpose is to bring about the total destruction of Derlith by plunging it into
a realm of infinite darkness. As such, his priests seek to kill, mame, destroy,
and scheme to this end. Aramon's clerics are highly tied to necromantic arts,
so they deal with the undead often. As such, they are able to call forth undead
to aid them. They are also able to enthrall these undead creatures, thereby
charming them to not cause the cleric any harm. Aggressive undead will not
usually attack a cleric of Aramon without provocation. Aramon clerics must
remain evil at all times, less they risk the wrath  of Aramon. Clerics of
Aramon hate clerics of Enoch, and they will go way out of their way to destroy
them by any means.

Abilities: pray, teach, enthrall, animate
Restrictions: Must wear light armor. Must remain evil.
              Healing spells on others are penalized.
Races: Cambion, Goblin, Half-Elf, Half-Giant, Half-Orc, Human, Kataran, Kobold,
	Minotaur, Ogre, Orc, Tiefling, Troll


Clerics of Ares

Ares is the god of war, destruction, bloodlust, and violence. Conquest is his
chief goal, and anywhere he can increase it, he gains more influence. As such,
priests of Ares tend to be of a less civilized mindset. Ares priests are not
very adept at healing as clerics usually are. A priest of Ares is much like a
berserker-priest, in that he is able to go berserk in combat in order to do
more damage. Also like a berserker, an Ares priest is able to bash his opponents
to oblivion, although not as well. Ares priests are always in the vanguard of
any barbarian conquests, and they often seek to lead in battle all over Derlith.
Clerics of Ares despise clerics of Ceris, often openly attacking them or driving
them away.

Abilities: pray, teach, bash, berserk
Restrictions: Must remain neutral. Healing spells are
              always cast at half level.
Races:  Barbarian, Cambion, Goblin, Half-Elf, Half-Giant, Half-Orc, Human,
	Kataran, Kobold, Minotaur, Ogre, Orc, Troll


Clerics of Ceris
(HELP CERIS)

Ceris is Derlith's goddess of healing, fertility, and compassion. She seeks to
prevent death, violence, and war however possible. Her clerics are often renown
as the best  healers and disease curers in the entire world. It is even said
that some of the more powerful Ceris clerics are able to raise back people from
the dead! As Ceris clerics are pacifists, they abore combat. As such, they are
not very good with weapons, and are only able to use blunt and pole class
weapons. Clerics of Ceris openly despise any kind of violence or evil. As such,
they stand in the way of followers of Ares and Aramon whenever possible. Ceris'
followers try to stay clear of priests of Enoch, as those priests recently have
been on a crusade to subjegate followers of Ceris using "righteous violence".

Abilities: pray, teach, turn, healing spell bonus
Restrictions: Light armor only. Pole and blunt weapons only. Must not
              go to extreme good or evil alignment.
Races: Human, Half-Elf
Special: rejuvinate spell (HELP REJUVINATE)
         resurrect spell (HELP RESURRECT)


Clerics of Enoch
(HELP ENOCH)

Enoch is Derlith's god of martial righteousness, truth, justice, and paladins.
He seeks to spread his influence however possible by helping the weak and
oppressed, by showing them his light and the singular truth of his ways. Clerics
of Enoch seek to convert all people to follow the beliefs of Enoch, and they
will openly fight if necessary to do this. They hunt out evil wherever they find
it, even if it's not really there in some cases. Followers of Aramon are to be
given no mercy, as Enoch has a long standing feud with Aramon. Others who aid
him receive no mercy either. Enoch clerics of higher power are able to use a
holyword to smite their evil enemies. They are also very good with weapons and
armor, due to their martial nature. Undead fear clerics of Enoch, and often run
in fear from their increased turning abilities. A cleric of Enoch must remain
good, or their power is liable to wane, and the Inquisitors' Order might come
looking for them for questioning.

Abilities: holyword, pray, teach, turn, turn bonus
Restrictions: Must remain as good as possible, or
              abilities wane.
Races: Half-Elf, Half-Giant, Half-Orc, Human, Kataran, Seraph

Clerics of Gradius
(HELP GRADIUS)

Derlith's dwarves all follow the god Gradius, their god of mining, metallurgy,
earth, and creation. Gradius is a jovial god, known as the best drinker and
carouser in the heavens. On Derlith, he seeks to increase his influence
primarily through dwarven expansion and building, but also through conquests
against evil humanoids such as orcs, goblins, ogres, trolls, and giants.
Dwarven clerics of Gradius are second in warfare only to clerics of Ares, and
they often are seen at the head of dwarven armies leading in perilous charges,
screaming their god's name. Upon reaching certain power, a cleric of Gradius is
able to smother opponents with the power of earth. He is also able to conjure
creatures of earth to aid and assist him in combat. Healing is not a strong suit
of a Gradius cleric, as they are more focused on the areas of warfare and
elemental earth magic. Clerics of Gradius will seek to spread their god's
influence in any way they can, most often by killing as many orcs, goblins,
ogres, giants, and trolls as possible.

Abilities: pray, teach, smother, conjure(earth only)
Restrictions: Must remain neutral to light blue, or powers will wane,
              sometimes not functioning. Healing magic is penalized.
Bonus: see "help vile" for more information.
Races: Dwarf only


Clerics of Kamira

Kamira is Derlith's goddess of merriment, adventure, thieves, gambling, and
excitement. She is all about having a good time at all costs. Her priesthood
is completely chaotic, being one huge long party whenever any clerics are awake
and not unconscious. She is also the goddess of luck, and many wish the luck of
Kamira on their allies before battle or some other risky endeavor. Clerics of
Kamira are said to be unnaturally lucky. So much so, that nobody will gamble
with them, and in some places it's even illegal! They also have a tendancy to
"borrow" things and give them to the poor, or otherwise to play practical jokes
on people, so they are fully versed in the ability to steal. Clerics of Kamira
are good of heart, and must remain so, or their power with the goddess will
wane. They are some of the best explorers in the land, able to search almost as
well as some rangers, and to hide as well as a thief. At a certain point, they
even learn to pick locks. The enemy of a cleric of Kamira is anybody not out to
have a good time.

Abilities: pray, teach, pick, peek, steal, naturally lucky,
           search and hide well
Restrictions: Must remain good, or powers will wane,
              Must wear light armor, no missile weapons.
Races: Gnome, Half-Elf, Halfling, Human

