....иииии.....иииии..../                                \....иииии.....иииии....
  и  .  .  и  и  .  .  |    Help on:  Customs Policy    |  .  .  и  и  .  .  и
ииии.....иииии.....ииии\                                /ииии.....иииии.....ииии

After long consideration, we have decided on a very simple policy for customs.
The way the policy was before, too many people were depending on customs in
order to make themselves more powerful, and not enough on their roleplaying
aspects, which is what customs are truely for. You're supposed to get customs
to make your characters unique, not to make them more powerful.

As mentioned, the policy is very simple. All you have to do to get a custom,
is be level 13+ and have 25k gold. Then you find an item in the game and get it.
You then mail a watcher and tell them you want a custom item or use the form
provided on the website. Dominus must approve of the new name. If the item you
are making a custom is damaged, and it can normally be repaired, then he will
repair it for you. Basically customs are nothing more then renaming existing
items now.

To summarize, here's the policy:
 1) Get to level 13.
 2) Find an item EXISTING in the game (not a custom) and get it.
 3) Gather up 25k gold.
 4) Mail a watcher that you want a custom. You will need to include all the
    information for Dominus in this mail, as he will create these at his
    leisure, whether you are logged on or not. Right after you mail a watcher
    you should use the bank and transfer the 25k to Dominus.
 5) Dominus will take the first item in your inventory with the name specified.
    He will set the item's level to level 13 and flag it as a custom.
 6) If normally repairable, Dominus will repair it. If you want to make an
    item that is not repairable a custom, bring it to Dominus unused.
 7) Dominus will curse your custom for another 10k gold.
 8) Dominus will make your custom resist-dissolve for another 10k gold.
 9) If you normally cannot use an item, it cannot be your custom.
 10) Once done, there are no repairs and no refunds.
 11) No one but Dominus (not even another DM) can do this for you.
 12) This policy is subject to change at any time.

Follow this example:
  -------------------
Dear Watcher,
   I have an item in my inventory I want to be a custom.
ITEM: some cloth pants

NAME: some bronze pantaloons
DESC: They're great bronze breeches that provide little comfort.
USE:  You strap the bronze pantaloons on your legs.
CURSED: yes
  -------------------
USE, CURSED and RDISSOLVE are optional.

A better and more efficient way of getting customs done is to fill out
the form on the website. It can be found at:
      http://www.rohonline.net/customs.php

