....иииии.....иииии..../                                \....иииии.....иииии....
  и  .  .  и  и  .  .  |       Help on:  uniques        |  .  .  и  и  .  .  и
ииии.....иииии.....ииии\                                /ииии.....иииии.....ииии

Unique and Limited Items [01/09/02]

One of the failings of general Mordor mud code, was that it failed to account
for unique items. A unique item is an item which is limited and 'owned' per say
by a monster which drops it. For instance, many of you have found the missile
weapon "Darkfinder". This weapon would be an example of a unique item. Recently,
we have coded it such that these types of items may now be truely unique. The
number of them loaded into the game is now tracked. To use Darkfinder as an
example of this, this means that there can now only be one Darkfinder out in
the game at a time. The creature which drops Darkfinder will now not drop
another one until the one out in the game breaks. Even though there is more than
one Darkfinder out in the game right now, eventually, when all of them break or
are otherwise destroyed, only one will be able to be out at a time. In this way,
some items are now truely unique. We are also able to set a max number on items
allowed out into the game. For instance, if we wanted to, we could make it so
only 6 blackened-steel eviscerators could be out in the game at one time. This
can be done to any item now.

Unique and Limited Item Game Mechanics

Whenever you look at an item, it will tell you whether that item is
unique/limited. For now, no unique/limited item can be kept in a storage room
or sold in a player run shop. Eventually this will be changed.

Also, if a player is logged off for over a weeks time, all of the unique items
in his/her inventory are automatically deleted, and the unique item files are
updated to allow new ones to load for other people. So do not stay logged off
with unique/limited items for over a week.

Obviously, unique/limited items will be of exceptional quality, and will be
very good AC, damage, or otherwise nice in other ways. There aren't many in
the game as of right now, but we will be adding them slowly as time goes by.

