....иииии.....иииии..../                                \....иииии.....иииии....
  и  .  .  и  и  .  .  |      Help on:  armor spell     |  .  .  и  и  .  .  и
ииии.....иииии.....ииии\                                /ииии.....иииии.....ииии

Cambion Roleplaying Notes

First off, read the section about cambions in the Book of Knowledge. That will
give you a good idea to begin with.

Cambions do not always know of their demonic halves at birth. However, they
often have horrible childhoods due to them having odd pointed ears, small horns,
or unusual skin color. Some even have small tails or claws. Of course this
results in much ridicule by the community, and even banishment in most cases.
Cambions are accepted far more in the northern parts of Derlith (near Caladon
and Drakken Port) then anywhere in the south. However, there will be "purist"
racists anywhere they go.

As a result of their bad childhoods, most cambions grow up with a chip on their
shoulders and turn to a life of crime, as they are not allowed into any other
profession. As they are exceptionally more intelligent then average humans, they
often become the leaders of gangs and various other criminal orginizations.
Cambions also often choose to become mages or clerics of Aramon, and do very
well due to their vast intellectual capacity.

Cambion women are ALWAYS seductive and beautiful. They have a strange attraction
about them which is always used to influence any human males they encounter.
Cambion males are also quite handsome, but they do not have the same effect on
human females.

Cambions always have a superior attitude toward others, and almost ALWAYS follow
the view that the weak must be destroyed so that the stronger should rule. As a
result of similar attitudes but having different reasons for those attitudes,
cambions often despise elves and vice versa. Whereas a cambion believes only the
strong shall rule at the expense of the weak, elves generally believe that the
weak and old must be protected from the strong, and that they have rights.

In Caladon, cambions are revered as divine in some cases by the peasants there.
They are ALWAYS treated as nobility, and are shown every respect. The Devil
Knights prefer to recruit cambions more then any other race. Some political
appointments or other important positions in the city require a person to be a
cambion and not simply a mere human. By far, there are many more cambions in the
north then the south for obvious reasons. Demons walk freely in the city of
Caladon.

In Sigil, however, cambions are viewed as spawns of evil by the people there.
As mentioned, the majority of the south is very racist in regards to humanity,
so cambions often cover their features there or travel by night.

If there is ever any kind of major planning to do for anything, a cambion is the
right person for their job. Their minds are very objective and analytical, and
they care little for the feelings for others. This is another reason they make
very good leaders, as they are able to make decisions very quickly without being
bogged down by ideological considerations. Of course this sometimes can be bad,
but if you want action, a cambion is the correct leader to have. Because of
their philosophy of the strong must prevail, cambions often are able to lead
vast numbers of orcs under their command, as orcs function in the same manner.
Dark elves also welcome cambions into their homes, a very rare thing indeed for
such a racist people to do. Dark elf and cambion philosophy is very similar, so
they are often found allying together in battle or politically.

Above all, however, a cambion is a master chameleon of personality. Depending on
the occasion at hand, a cambion can be as savage as a group of goblins, or even
behave with the etiquette required of the richest noble courts. They are master
deceptors and manipulators, and often are able to sway even the most stubborn
dwarf to their wishes.

Although most cambions are found in professions such as thieves, assassins, dark
clerics, death knights, and fighters, some others are possible as well. However,
most cambions in other professions are often quite insane. For example: A
cambion ranger would constantly insist on protecting the forest, and persecuting
those which damage it, but would at the same time have an intense good time
torturing small animals to death since they are weaker then themselves. It would
be quite a paradox.

Cambions are indifferent to Seraphs, and treat them as similarly as they would
treat any other race which they find to be weaker then themselves.

