....иииии.....иииии..../                                \....иииии.....иииии....
  и  .  .  и  и  .  .  |         Help on:  stats        |  .  .  и  и  .  .  и
ииии.....иииии.....ииии\                                /ииии.....иииии.....ииии

Realms is a much better enjoyed game in the long run if you know what stats to
pick. In most cases it takes trial and error and a lot of playing experience to
figure out the right stats for you. This file will assist you, in that it will
explain what each stat does so you can make educated decisions on your own about
how to pick stats at character creation.

STRENGTH:

Strength determines how hard you hit and how much you can carry. If you are a
vampire, it helps determine your chance to bite successfully. For hiring
monsters (HELP HIRE), it helps determine how long the monster stays with you
before demanding more money.

DEXTERITY:

Dexterity is an important stat for some classes but not for others. First off,
higher dexterity lets you hide better. It also determines your chances of
fleeing successfully. If you are a barbarian or fighter, it helps you circle
better the higher it is. For thieves, it assists you in your ability to steal.
Dexterity also helps druids when they attempt their endurance ability. Last but
not least, a higher dexterity lowers your armor class (AC) and makes it so
monsters and players have a harder time hitting you.

CONSTITUTION:

Constitution can be important depending on what you want. First off,
constitution determines how many hit points you get at a time when you tick, or
slowly regain your hit points and magic points. For example, with a lower
constitution, you might get back 1 hit point at a time. A higher one, however,
can allow you to get 8 back at a time. Another thing constitution does if it is
high is give you a bonus to the number of hit points you get each time you reach
a higher level. This can be most useful for fighters and barbarians. If you are
a vampire, constitution helps determine how long your hypnosis lasts. If you
are a lich, constitution determines how often you regain hit points.

INTELLIGENCE:

Intelligence is the most important attribute for most spell casting classes. The
higher your intelligence is, the higher the bonus you get on the damage your
spells do. In addition, the higher the number you have in intelligence, the
longer your stuns last when you use the stun spell. This is very important for
all casting classes. Intelligence also determines how many magic points you
regenerate back at a time. If you are a bard or vampire, intelligence helps
determine how successful you are when you try to charm or hypnotize. If a cleric
has a higher intelligence then piety, it helps him heal more hit points when
using the vigor and mend-wound spells. Last but not least, a the higher your
intelligence is, the less chance you have of spell failure.

PIETY:

Piety is another extremely important attribute to most of the spellcasting
classes. For all classes except liches, piety determines how often you regain
hit points and magic points. If your piety is lower, you will tick less often
then if it is high, and your character wont regenerate his hit points and magic
back as quickly. Piety also helps you to search. Also, the lower your piety is,
the most likely an aggressive monster will attack you as opposed to someone else
in the room with a higher piety. Generally, the higher your piety is, the more
you will heal back when you use the vigor or mend wound spells.

Generally, it is suggested that you put high numbers in any of the attributes
listed as prime requisites for a class. These are all listed in the Book of
Knowledge. Another good source for what to make your stats at creation are the
many experienced players we have playing Realms. Playing experience is the best
indicator. Remember that the race you pick effects your attributes as well.
Races and their adjustments are listed in the Book of Knowledge.

