....иииии.....иииии..../                                \....иииии.....иииии....
  и  .  .  и  и  .  .  |         Help on:  Lich         |  .  .  и  и  .  .  и
ииии.....иииии.....ииии\                                /ииии.....иииии.....ииии

Prime Requisites: Intelligence, Constitution
Compatable Races: Barbarian, Cambion, Dark-Elf, Dwarf, Elf, Gnome, Goblin,
	Half-Elf, Half-Giant, Half-Orc, Halfling, Human, Kataran, Kobold,
	Minotaur, Ogre, Orc, Seraph, Tiefling, Troll

A lich is the result of forbidden necromantic magics. Some mages, when they
reach venerable age, set out to extend their lives forever. To do this, they
magically transform themselves into a lich using powerful negative energies. The
result is an evil and undead being, which is the bane of all life in its path.
A newly created lich is a shadow of its former self, having to start all over
again to advance in power and experience. A lich is averse to healing magics,
and no such spells will work for them or to their benefit. The magical energies
which the immortal lich uses are a tap on its own life force. As such, a lich
doesn't cast spells as the living do, but drains its own life to do so. A lich
may touch a living creature and drain the life from it, leeching part of the
creature's life force for itself. In addition, liches may also draw on the
positive energy of the world around them to regenerate their own life force. As
a result, there is always a deathly coldness whenever a lich is present. Due to
the feeble nature of a lich's new body, they take more damage from physical
attacks then normal. However, since they are essentially magical undead
creations, they tend to resist magic the more powerful they get. They even
absorb some of the damage to replenish their life force. A lich is unaffected
by poison or disease, as these are weaknesses it only had in its former life. A
lich is able to be turned by clerics and paladins, which actively hunt them down
to destroy them. The lich is the destroyer of all things living and will kill at
all costs. It must remain evil. If it does not, it surely will fade out of
existence. On the world of Derlith, the lich owes allegiance to no one but
itself.

Abilities: Drain, Regenerate, Magic resistance

