....иииии.....иииии/                                   \иииии.....иииии....
  и  .  .  и  и  . |      Help on:  guildcommands      | .  и  и  .  .  и
ииии.....иииии.....\                                   /.....иииии.....ииии

The guild command lets you do anything and everything involving player
run guild functions. A keyword follows the command which determines
what you intend to do. All are described below:

Syntax: GUILD ABDICATE
              ACCEPT | JOIN
              BALANCE
              DEMOTE
              DEPOSIT
              DISBAND
              FOUND
              FORUM
              INVITE
              LIST
              MEMBERS
              PROMOTE
              REJECT
              REMOVE
              SUPPORT
              STATEMENT
              TRANSFER
              WITHDRAW
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Guild command keyword descriptions
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
FOUND:     This allows someone who is level 10+ to attempt to start a new
           player run guild. When you do this, you must then find 2 other
           players of level 7+ to SUPPORT(see below) your guild. As soon as
           it is supported, it is put into the queue for staff approval or
           rejection. The only reason the staff will reject a guild is
           usually because we do not find the name acceptable. When this
           occurs, you will receive a mudmail stating your new guild has
           been rejected and why.

           Syntax:
           guild found <guild name>

           EXAMPLE
           : guild found Dark Legion

           Note: The name of the guild you wish to found needs to be just
                 like you want it to look in the game. In other words,
                 for the above example, you wouldnt type "dark legion"
                 because that is not correct upper case and it will most
                 likely be rejected.

FORUM:     This command allows the guildmaster of the guild to specify
           which forum account is responsible for the guild's board on the
           forum. If a guild and a corresponding guild board do not exist,
           they will be created. If the guild and guild board already
           exist, then it will update the guildmaster on the website to
           the specified account.

           Syntax:
           guild forum <forum account>

           EXAMPLE
           : guild forum Dominus

SUPPORT:   This allows you, if you are level 7+, to support any new guilds
           which are needing support. You may see which guilds are needing
           support by using the LIST keyword (see below). Once two other
           level 7+ people have supported a guild, it goes into the queue
           for staff approval, as mentioned above.

           Syntax:
           guild support <guild name>

           EXAMPLE
           : guild support Dark Legion

           Note: Name is not case sensitive.

LIST:      This will list for you all known guilds and all guilds which
           are requesting support.

INVITE:    This allows the guild founder or any officer to invite another
           player to join a guild. Players invited must be at least level
           7+, they cannot be a member of another guild already, and can
           not be considering joining another guild at the time.

           Syntax:
           guild invite <player> [banker|officer]

           EXAMPLE
           : guild invite bob
           You invite Bob to join your guild as a normal member.
           : guild invite fred banker
           You invite Fred to join your guild as a banker.
           : guild invite alex officer
           You invite Fred to join your guild as an officer.

REMOVE:    This allows you to remove yourself from a guild you are in. It
           also allows officers in a guild to remove others in a guild
           that are lower rank than they are. If you are a guild's founder,
           you must first ABDICATE your leadership(see below) before you
           can remove yourself from the guild.

           Syntax:
           guild remove
           guild remove <player>

           EXAMPLE
           : guild remove
           You remove yourself from your guild (Dark Legion).
           : guild remove Bob
           You remove Bob from your guild.

ABDICATE:  This allows the guildmaster to transfer leadership of the guild
           to another guild member before leaving the guild. The guildmaster
           will be demoted to the rank of banker.

           Syntax:
           guild abdicate <player>

           EXAMPLE
           : guild abdicate Fred
           You promote Fred to guild leader.
	     [Dark Legion] Fred has been promoted to guild leader by Joe.

JOIN:
ACCEPT:    This will allow a player to join a guild when invited. A player
           must be level 7+ to join a guild.

           Syntax:
           guild join

           EXAMPLE
           : guild join
           You have joined Dark Legion.

REJECT:    This allows a player to reject an invitation to a join a guild.

           Syntax:
           guild reject

           EXAMPLE
           : guild reject
           You reject the offer to join Dark Legion.

PROMOTE:   This allows a guild leader/founder to promote guild members to
           a higher rank.

           Syntax:
           guild promote <player> [banker|officer]
           guild promote <player>  Note: default just promotes to officer.

           EXAMPLE (bob is of the rank officer)
           : guild promote bob
           You promote Bob to banker
           Bob has been promoted to the rank of banker by Bane.


DEMOTE:    This allows a guild leader/founder to demote guild members to
           a lower rank.

           Syntax:
           guild demote <player>

           EXAMPLE:
           : guild demote Bob
           You demote Bob to officer
           Bob has been demoted to officer rank by Bane.
           : guild demote Bob
           You demote Bob to member
           Bob has been demoted to member rank by Bane.



DISBAND:   If you are the leader, this will delete your guild.



DEPOSIT:
WITHDRAW:
STATEMENT:
TRANSFER:
BALANCE:   These commands are all used for the guild's bank account. Only
           a guild's banker and leader/founder are able to withdraw or
           transfer money from the guild account. In all other ways, these
           commands function the same as all of the normal banking commands.
           HELP BANKS. You must be within a bank room to use these functions.

MEMBERS:   Gives you a listing of the members of the guild specified.


For further information about guilds, please type ^yHELP GUILDS^x.

