....иииии.....иииии/                                   \иииии.....иииии....
  и  .  .  и  и  . |    Help on:  Multi-Class Chars    | .  и  и  .  .  и
ииии.....иииии.....\                                   /.....иииии.....ииии

Multi-class characters are a common thing in standard D&D, so we thought we'd
try to port them into Mordor. While there are big benefits to being multi-class,
most noteably being able to have alot of the abilities of both classes, there
are also penalties - the primary one being that multi-class characters
automatically receieve 3/4 the exp from everything. Therefore, it takes them a
third as long to level. In addition, while multi-class characters have abilities
in both their classes, the abilities are not always as strong as a full person
of that class would be in them. For instance, when stealing, a fighter/thief is
not as good as a pure thief of the same level, and he can't ever steal gold. In
some cases, an ability might not even be available. To use the above example,
a fighter/thief is unable to bash.

It is strongly suggested that only veteran players attempt to level one of these
classes, as they will be quite taxing to level. Once they are high level,
though, they will be incredibly cool and well-rounded classes. The following is
a list of the multi-class combinations available at character creation. These
are the only ones available for right now. More may be added at a later date.


Note: Initial HP/MP is always the average of the normal alotted to each class.
Note 2: Stat and save adjustments per level has been customized for each of
       these combinations.
Note 3: All ability benefits and restrictions are not mentioned here. You will
       need to find out some for yourselves.
Note 4: All multi-class chars train at the location of their first class.


FIGHTER/MAGE
HP/lvl: 5
MP/lvl: 4
Thac0: Fighter
Allowed Races: Cambion, Elf, Half-elf, Gnome, Dark-elf, Seraph, Tiefling

Description:
Fighter/Mages are warrior mages. The first ones appeared among the elves, with
their mages specifically trained for war with orcs and other evil forest
denizens. A fighter/mage can automatically detect-magic just like a mage. They
also cast faster than a fighter does. Fighter/mages are required to wear light
armor, and they are unable to bash, and do not circle as well as a pure fighter.


FIGHTER/THIEF
HP/lvl: 6
MP/lvl: 2
Thac0: Fighter
Allowed Races: Cambion, Dwarf, Elf, Half-elf, Halfling, Orc, Half-orc,
	Kataran, Kobold, Goblin, Tiefling

Description:
A fighter/thief is usually a fighter that started out trying to be a thief at a
young age and gained some skills in that profession, and then moved on to just
be a fighter because they liked focusing more on fighting skills than thieving.
A fighter/thief can pick locks, peek, steal, backstab, sneak, and hide just like
a thief can, although not as well. Fighter/thieves are also required to wear
light armor, and they are unable to bash, and do not circle as well as a pure
fighter.


CLERIC/ASSASSIN
HP/lvl: 5
MP/lvl: 3
Thac0: Cleric
Allowed Races: Half-orc, Cambion

Description:
Cleric/assassins are clerics which specialize in killing people. As a result,
they train as assassins as well as in the clerical arts. A cleric/assassin may
only pledge to Aramon, as the Cult often trains its clerics in this manner. A
cleric/assassin is able to backstab, scout, sneak, and hide, just
like a normal assassin can, only not always as well. They also cast a little
slower, cannot teach, and their healing is as if they are half their level.


MAGE/THIEF
HP/lvl: 5
MP/lvl: 4
Thac0: Mage
Allowed Races: Elf, Gnome, Cambion, Half-elf, Tiefling

Description:
A mage/thief is usually a former thief which discovered they had abilities in
the arcane arts and gave up their criminal career. This by no means stops them
from being skilled thieves still, however. A mage/thief is able to pick, steal,
dodge, hide, sneak, and backstab just like a normal thief, only not as well. As
a result of deviating from their mage studies, their casting time is somewhat
slower. Mage/thieves are still bound by mage armor restrictions.


THIEF/MAGE
HP/lvl: 5
MP/lvl: 3
Thac0: Thief
Allowed Races: Elf, Gnome, Cambion, Half-elf, Tiefling

Description:
A thief/mage is a thief who once was a mage, or a thief who dabbles in arcane
arts while being a thief. They retain their ability to detect magic, and they
cast spells a little faster than a pure thief does. Dabbling in arcane arts
causes a thief/mage's ability to steal to be lax somewhat.


MAGE/ASSASSIN
HP/lvl: 5
MP/lvl: 3
Thac0: Assassin
Allowed Races: Cambion, Dark-elf, Tiefling

Description:
The mage/assassin is the ultimate assassin - the killer with magic. They are
mages cross-trained to be assassins for various dark organizations. In fact,
they recently have resurfaced. Previously, none had been seen since before the
troubled times. It is believed they work for a dark order of shadow assassins,
trained by the Nightshades, but these are only rumors. A mage assassin is able
to scout, use envenom, and backstab just like an assassin, only not as well.
They use an assassin's thac0 to fight. As a result of their cross-training, they
do not automatically detect-magic, and they are unable to teach or learn how to
enchant items. They are limited by mage restrictions on armor.
