....иииии.....иииии/                                   \иииии.....иииии....
  и  .  .  и  и  . |      Help on:  Realms Policy      | .  и  и  .  .  и
ииии.....иииии.....\                                   /.....иииии.....ииии

Last update: 01/17/03

	This policy is intended to make play for all players,
new and old to Realms, have an enjoyable playing experience.
It is in effect the "rules and regulations" for playing Realms.
Please review it carefully, and if you have any questions, find
a post office and mudmail (HELP MUDMAIL) a watcher. Please type
HELP STAFF to see the various functions and ranks of the Realms
Staff.

GENERAL INFRACTIONS AND USUAL CONSEQUENCES
	Following is a list of general things which we consider
to be infractions and against the rules here, as well as usual
punishment for each. You can see definitions of the various
punishments by typing HELP PUNISHMENT.

1. Do not crash the game intentionally.
	Crashing the game ruins the game for everyone, can
damage the database, and can cause loss of equipment or the
experience points of other people. If you crash the game with
malicious intent, your character has an extreme chance of
being immediately deleted, as well as all of your other
characters you may have.

2. Do not multi-log.
	Do not have more than one character logged in at a time.
Usually this is impossible, but some might find a way to do it.
This will usually result in a warning, but it could result in
other punishments as well.

3. Do not do things to intentionally get other players killed
by a monster.
	Although killing another player while they are fighting
a monster is impossible here, people still may find a way to
make other people die and lose experience. People who do this
usually will either wind up dieing to a monter themselves, or
they will receive jailtime. Multiple offenses of this nature
make for worse punishment as a result. Note that this rule
does not apply when someone gets an outlaw killed.

4. Do not "spam" other players.
	Although we have gag code (HELP GAG) which can be used
to prevent this from happening, people might still find a way
to do this. A verbal warning will be given to offenders,
followed by a permanent warning on any additional offenses.
Offenders might also be globally gagged to everyone else on
for a time, or they'll be silenced in various ways.

5. Do not use robots to play automatically.
	Robots are characters made to run automatically with the
aid of triggers using a mudclient such as Zmud. Robots are
illegal because they are a shortcut to actual gameplay, upset
game balance, and not everyone is able get or use a mudclient.
A staff member which finds a suspected robot will probe to see
if the player is acutally at their keyboard by various means.
If they determine this to not be the case, that robot will be
immediately outlawed for a time and degree specified by that
staff member. Note that an idling player left on with triggers
can somtimes be considered a robot, but usually will just be
logged off or have his/her password changed.

6. Do not exploit advantageous bugs.
	If you find a bug, please report it (HELP BUG) to us
immediately. If it is found you have exploited a bug without
reporting it to the bug log, you will be punished. The
punishment will fully depend on the degree of the exploitation.
For this purpose, a "bug" is not just a bug with the code in
the game. It is also things like level 2 monsters worth 2000
experience, which is obviously out of balance and should be
reported. If anything is thought to be out of the ordinary or
too easy, it needs to be put in the bug log and reported to us
immediately (HELP BUG).

7. Do not sell or give away quest items.
	A quest item is any item which gives you experience when
you pick it up. One or more is usually required to complete a
specific quest. Giving these items away can upset the balance
of the game. If you are found giving away quest items, the
quest will be removed from you if you have it, and you will
be warned. Repeat offenses of this bring worse punishment.

8. Do not commit "consented pkilling".
	When one pledged person (see pledging below) allows
another pledged person to kill them, for the sole purpose of
gaining experience, this is called "consented pkilling". This
upsets game balance. If you are found doing this, both
characters in question will receive jailtime.

9. Do not lie to Realms staff members when questioned.
	When we question you, do not lie to us. If we're in the
process of questioning you, it's usually because we caught
you at something. If you lie to us, you can forget about any
warnings and start thinking about jailtime or being outlawed.

10. Do not log on and attack things and die continually.
	Doing this is just irritating. As this is usually just
people using level one characters and dying over and over, a
staff member will usually just delete the character. If it
persists, a sitelock will be put in place.

11. Do not sexually harass other players.
	We will not tolerate sexual harassment in any form, and
it will usually result in you being jailed for a long time.
If it continues, you'll be deleted or a sitelock will be put
in place. There's no room for that kind of thing here.

12. Abuse of the newbie channel (HELP NEWBIE) is expressly
prohibited.
	This channel is for the use of new players to get help
and to help one another. Using it in replacement for broadcasts
by logging on a lower level character is illegal. A warning
will first be issued. Following that, your highest level
characters will be jailed.

13. Do not masquerade as a newbie.
	We protect new players for the express purpose of making
this game more suitable to gain new players. If you pretend to
be a newbie, you take our time away from helping somebody who
really is, and you can also get others wrongfully in trouble.
DO NOT DO THIS. If you are found to be doing this, every one
of your characters that we know of will be outlawed or jailed
for a very long time.

PLAYER ETIQUETTE VIOLATIONS
	Etiquette violations are things people do which make
the game less enjoyable for other people who are playing.
Punishments for these things vary depending on staff members.

1. Please keep all personal insults private.
	If you want to insult one another, please do not do it
on any kind of public channel where more than one person can
see it. This can be tedious to read and it messes up the game
for some people.

2. Please do not broadcast for staff members.
	The staff of Realms is very busy. If you broadcast for us,
you will most likely be ignored. Please ask, mudmail, or contact
via the forum, a watcher. Their job is to be liasons. If it is a
bug you wish to report, post it on the forum under Bugs!

3. Do not use excessive foul language in broadcast, except
during certain late hours.
	A simple rule is this: If you wouldnt hear it on
American television, do not broadcast it between the hours
of 6am-12am Eastern Standard Time. This goes for any language.
As most of our staff only speaks English, if we perceive a
different language is profanity, whether it is or not, we might
act on it. You will always first receive a verbal warning.

4. Do not, by your actions, continually make this game miserable
for new players, or anybody else.
	Thinking you are cool by doing it, or trying to make
this game into "survival of the fittest", or "because I was
picked on so I owe it to other newbies", or any other half
cocked stupid reason you may come up with, NEVER will justify
your making this game miserable for new players. This is not
gangland. It is a GAME where we intend to protect our player
base. Driving off players will damage both the current and
future player bases here. It therefore damages the game. We will
act when we see this happening - first with formal warnings. Any
persistant desires to ignore this rule after that, will result
in your being made miserable by us in various ways - we are very
creative, so I wouldn't suggest taking this lightly.
	You may ask "what is a newbie?". The definition is
quite simple: a newbie is whomever we decide is a newbie. We
will know. Don't take the chance. Do not ignore this rule.
Ignoring it is to damaging the game for everyone.

NOTE:	Being pkilled does not equate to being made miserable.
      You have options to avoid it.

5. Please do not stack the bug forum with frivolous posts.
	Please do not continuously post frivolous bugs in separate
posts. Please write down these kinds of bugs over time, and then
post them all at once. If a bug is not catastrophic, meaning it
doesn't damage the game or screw something up for a class or player,
please do not post it in its own topic.

-------------------------------------------------------------
These infractions are by all means not all inclusive. There
are surely some things not listed here which will likely be
considered by the staff as against the rules. Just because
something isn't listed here, does not mean it will be ok for
you to do it. Please use common sense. Staff members have
final word here on what is and is not to be considered an
infraction. If you have questions please mail a watcher.
-------------------------------------------------------------

REALMS CHARACTER NAME POLICY
	Realms is considered first and foremost a mud where fantasy
roleplaying is encouraged above anything else. Having a
non-fantasy roleplaying style names discourages this atmosphere,
and sometimes makes the game not as fun for some people.
Determination of whether a name or names is inappropriate for
the roleplaying environment will be placed in the hands of all
of the watchers (HELP WATCHERS). Should they decide your name
is inappropriate, by vote amongst themselves, you will be
required to pick a new name or a new one will be picked for you.
At that point, a staff member will be contacted, and your name
will be changed instantaneously to another name which is deemed
appropriate. You may or may not be consulted until after the fact.
	Of course, it is common sense that names with any kind
of profanity will be immediately disallowed, regardless of what
the watchers want.

NOTE: Bane, being a head DM, has the right to excercise a veto
on any name he finds undesirable to his personal taste. If he
doesn't like your name and changes it, you may ask a watcher to
change it to something else if you do not like what he chooses
for you. Understand, however, that they are not required to do
it for you. The best thing is just to not choose an obviously
retarded name.

GENERAL REALMS POLICIES
	Following are listed some general policies which the
staff will always follow. Each rank of staff member, and
their various functions, can be seen in HELP STAFF.

1. We will not help you with quests, hints or otherwise.

2. We will not tell you where to find things on the mud.

3. We will not change your character after you created it.
   (Except in cases such as the name policy, above...)

4. We will not restore equipment or experience lost in a
crash. Equipment lost due to bugs will not be restored.

5. Experience lost to deaths will never be restored, unless
it is due to a repeatable bug, or it was accidentally caused
by a staff member. In the case of an accidentally deleted
character, your character will be restored from the latest
backup we have.

6. Unless a bug is catastrophic, we will not discuss it with
you if it has not been placed in the buglog - HELP BUG.

7. You join all staff run quests at your own risk. If you die
as a result, you chose to participate in the quest.

8. We will not give out password information. See below.

9. Stolen characters of under level 10 are not our problem.

LAW vs CHAOS
	Understand that if you choose to be chaotic at character
creation, you are the one who made that choice, and no one
is responsible but you for it. Chaotic players can be stolen
from and killed at will by other chaotic players in the game.
If you tire of this, you are always able to convert yourself
to lawful by typing "convert" at the prompt and choosing 'Y'.

PLEDGING TO CLANS/GUILDS
	Pledging to clans or player guilds is a risk you alone
choose to take. Both allow other players to steal from you,
kill you even if you are lawful, or sometimes cause you to
lose experience. If you do not want any of these things to
happen to you, do not join a clan or guild. Some classes are
required to pledge to a clan to level. These are: fighters,
assassins, thieves, rogues, paladins, and deathknights. In
addition, paladins and deathknights may always kill one
another, and clerics of Aramon and Enoch can do so as well,
despite being lawful. Choose your class wisely.

SHARING OF CHARACTERS
You may share characters, but understand that this is done at
your own risk. Should your character get stolen, deleveled,
pkilled, or in any other way harmed by the person you share
with, it is completely your fault and no responsibility of
ours. Sharing is allowed at any level, and no approval is
required. However, should we determine a player or groups
of players' sharing gets out of hand, we reserve the right
to step in and disallow sharing on an individual basis.

PROXY/NETWORK LAN PLAY AND SHARING
All characters on a proxy network or LAN with the same
IP address are considered to be shared characters. As
such, since identity of any one of these characters
cannot be verified 100%, any illegal actions done by
one of the characters will get the punishment for
such act applied to all people playing from that IP
address. Be careful who you share your LAN with.

SELLING CHARACTERS
	If you wish to sell or give away your character
to another player, and that character is level 13+, you
will need to contact a watcher in order to get staff
approval. We are finding it is not beneficial to the mud
for some of these deals to go through, and we need to
approve them in order to protect the interests of Realms.

FORGOTTEN PASSWORDS
	Your passwords are your responsibility. We will not
ever give out password information to anybody. Write them
down somewhere. Passwords on Realms will be required to be
changed from time to time in order to maintain security.

STOLEN CHARACTERS
	If it is found that a character over level 10+ is
stolen, and it can be proven to our satisfaction
(by you or our logs), the character will be returned. All
pertinent characters of the character thief will be
immediately deleted, and a sitelock will potentially be
put in place.

STORAGE CHARACTERS
	Storage characters are illegal. If we find one we will
most likely delete it without needing give anyone notice.
Personal storage rooms can be bought in the game for this
purpose. In addition, using player run shops to store items
by charging outrageous prices so no one will buy things is
very likely to get your shop deed revoked.

Type "help storage" for more information on storage rooms.

PROXY NETWORK PLAY
	All players who wish to play via a network at home
need to inform any watcher (HELP WATCHERS) they see online.
If there are not any online, mudmail one you know of. A watcher
will contact a staff member to allow you to log in from the same
location.
	We do not have to allow proxy network play. We do this
to be nice. If people abuse this (i.e cheat with it) we will
turn it off.

NEW ADDITIONS TO THE GAME
	The world of Derlith, in addition to everything about
the game mechanics and coding of this mud, will very much be
in a constant dynamic state. We will change things as we see
they need to be changed. These things should never be thought
of as personal attacks by us on people. We have to do what
we feel is right for the entire mud in general, and we will
do so without hesitation.
	As a general rule, if we ever open a new area, or if
we release a new class, ability, or clan with abilities,
or anything else similar and otherwise new as well, you need
to consider it in a period of BETA testing for at least a
period of 6 months. During that time we will always be
evaluating it and tweaking things as we see fit to do so.
This means if you play the class, use the item, hang out in
the area, etc...it is likely to change sometimes. You should
never consider anything on Realms to be static. Stagnation
is death to muds, and we will not allow that to happen here.

------------------------------------------------------------
This policy is subject to change at all times. A notification
will usually be placed in the updates file (HELP UPDATES) every
time this file is changed.
