....иииии.....иииии/                                   \иииии.....иииии....
  и  .  .  и  и  . |      Help on:  welcomerealms      | .  и  и  .  .  и
ииии.....иииии.....\                                   /.....иииии.....ииии
Realms of Hell
Version 2.01b

DMs: Bane, Dominus

****************************************************************************
   NOTE: It is recommended that players read this file in its entirety.
         ALSO: Please type help policy at your earliest convenience. Help
         policy explains all the rules of our mud. Ignorance of the rules
         will not exempt you from being required to uphold them.
****************************************************************************
For the purpose of this document, a DM is a dungeonmaster, and a CT is
a caretaker.

INTRODUCTION

Realms of Hell is a multi-player game set in a fantasy realm in cyberspace.
It is first and foremost a game of person-to-person interaction. In this
interactive realm, players may talk amongst themselves, fight fantastic
creatures and gain treasures, fight each other, or solve puzzling quests
throughout the realm either for entertainment or in order to become more
powerful. Players may gain experience by killing various creatures and
completing quests. By gaining experience, your character may gain in
levels. Levels are what indicates how powerful any particular player is.
The range of levels is 1(weak and inexperienced) to 30(almost godlike).
A player may be several different classes and races. A class is similar
to a profession, such as wizard or fighter. There are several races other
then human a player may be in Realms of Hell. They come in three size
categories, each category determining what armor or weapons you can use
or wield. Some races can see in the dark and others cannot. Information on
every single race and class, as well as abilities and attribute adjustments
can all be found in the Book of Knowledge.

Although Realms of Hell can be played with a telnet client, we recommend
that you get a MUD client, which is a program specially designed for playing
online games like ours. The one we suggest you get is Zmud. Shareware and
Freeware versions of it can be found at:
http://www.zuggsoft.com/zmud/zmudinfo.htm.
A program called Putty also works very well with the mud. It is a single
file and acts an all-around telnet client, but is more user friendly.
http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/

Realms of Hell is administered by several people who are more often then
not there to assist you. The administration staff consists of DMs
(Dungeonmasters), CTs (Caretakers), and Watchers. DMs are higher then
caretakers, but if you have a problem, a caretaker should be contacted first
whenever possible. Also, whenever possible, it is best to contact the
administration via mudmail instead of asking to talk to them personally.
Mudmail will be explained later in more detail. There are also Watchers in
the game now, which are players that have been chosen as a liaison for the
DMs and CTs. It is best to contact a Watcher if you want to contact a DM or
CT about a problem or issue. The players that are Watchers will have white
text when you type "who". Additionally, typing "who watcher" will give you
a list of watchers if any are online.

CHARACTER CREATION

If you have never played an online game such as Realms of Hell before,
you naturally will be quite dumbfounded as to what's going on. The first
thing you must do is create a new character. When you log on to the
mudsite, you are prompted with:

Enter Name:

What you must do is choose a name for yourself. This name should not be
something goofy like Iwillkillyouall, or Firefart, or anything else similar.
Sometimes a goofy name is ok, but be warned that if anyone on the
administration staff doesn't like it, you will most likely be asked to
choose another name. A watcher can assist you in the renaming proccess.
Profane names are NEVER allowed under any circumstances. If you enter a
name and are prompted with:

Enter Password:

This means that someone has already chosen that name. Don't panic! All you
have to do reconnect and try another name. Once you choose a name, the mud
will ask for confirmation of yes or no. If you do not like the name you chose
after all, tell the mud no, and you can choose another. If you are satisfied
with your name, choose yes and go on. The next thing the mud will do is ask
you to press return. It is a mystery of the universe why it does this.
Nevertheless, you must press return in order to move on. The next thing the
mud will ask is if you want to be male or female. Keep in mind that if you
are male in real life and want to play a female character or vice versa,
there is nothing wrong with that. It all depends on your personal
preference.

The next thing the mud will ask you is what race you want to be. There are a
total of 20 races to choose from. All races and their attribute adjustments,
size class, and whether they can see in the dark are all listed in the Book
of Knowledge. The most important thing about races is that specific races
can only be specific classes. Also, each race will have add or subtract to
specific attributes. You can type HELP (racename) at the prompt to see a
brief description. If you choose your race as human, the mud will ask which
attribute you want to add one to, and then which one to subtract from. This
is an advantage humans have over other races, since they are such a flexible
race.

The next thing the mud will ask you is what class you wish to be. All of
our classes and their descriptions and different abilities are listed in
the Book of Knowledge, or you may type HELP (classname) at the prompt to
get a brief description of the class.

After choosing a class, the mud will ask you to enter in the numbers for your
five attributes. The attributes, in order are: Strength, Dexterity,
Constitution, Intelligence, and Piety. Each attribute affects your character
in different ways depending on which class you choose to be. To see what each
attribute represents, take a moment to look at our online attributes file by
typing HELP STATS. We recommend that you read it in it's entirety before
choosing your attribute scores. The game will be better for you in the long
run should you do so. Even though you may not understand some of the
terminology used there yet, it is still best to read it. Anyway, the mud
is now asking you to put 56 points in your different attributes spread out
however you so choose. There is a restriction though. The stat points for
each attribute cannot be lower than 3 our greater than 18. Let's say for
example you wanted to put a 10 in all of your attributes but piety, which
you would put a 16 in. To do this you would simply type:

10 10 10 10 16

and then press return. If you chose your race as human, the mud would then
ask which attribute you want to add one to. This is an advantage humans have
over other races. Note that 10 10 10 10 14 are horrible stats to put in your
attributes. It is a simply a bad combination for any class. Those numbers
were just used for example's sake. Hint: Generally, it is best to use either
a combination of: 2 18s, 2 3s, and a 12, or 3 16s and 2 3s, depending on
which class you pick and what race. Some attributes are more important then
others for some classes. You will learn this from playing experience and
talking to other players over time.

After choosing class, the mud will then ask you what weapon proficiency you
wish to use. In Realms of Hell, there are 6 types of weapons. These are, in
order, sharp, thrust, blunt, pole, missile, and cleave. Sharp weapons are
weapons like razor blades and hunting knives. A thrusting weapon could be a
dagger, sword, or spike. Blunt weapons can be clubs, maces, or anything else
you smack an enemy upside the head with. A pole weapon could be a halberd,
walking staff, or huge battle axe. A missile weapon would be a bow, sling,
crossbow, or anything else which uses a projectile. A cleave weapon would be
something like a hook or an axe. Whichever one (two if you are a fighter)
you pick will start with a 20% proficiency rating. Proficiency can range
from 0 to 100%. Over time and use of different weapons, they will rise closer
and closer to 100%. Keep in mind that just because you choose one weapon
proficiency, you are NOT limited to that proficiency. The beginning
proficiency you choose is simply a head start. Depending on your class,
the higher your proficiency gets, the more likely you are to do critical
damage with that weapon when you hit. Fighters and berserkers get the most
critical hits, and mages and liches barely ever get them, for example. You
should choose the proficiency based on your class. For example, if you are
an assassin or thief you would choose either sharp or thrust because you can
only use sharp or thrust weapons to backstab.

In the game you can be either chaotic or lawful. However, this is a key
decision you can make when you reach level 7. All characters will start off
as lawful in order to prevent people from taking advantage and killing you.
Chaotic players can be killed by other chaotic players, can be stolen from
by other chaotic players, and can likewise kill or steal from other chaotic
players. Killing another player is called pkilling, and it is for the most
part the sole propriety of being chaotic. Some people simply kill other
people just because they are chaotic and for no other reason. Lawful players
cannot be stolen from or killed by anyone, nor can they kill or steal from
other players. The only exception to this rule is pledging, which means
joining a clan. Fighters, thieves, assassins, clerics, death knights,
rogues, and paladins all must join a clan in order to rise in power. This
means you can be killed or stolen from by people of other clans then your
own regardless of being chaotic or lawful. Paladins and Death Knights can
ALWAYS attack one another, regardless of being chaotic or lawful. This is
part of being one of those two classes. They are in a permanent holy war
with one another. In general however, the game is much safer for you if
you chose to be lawful. If you are new to the game, it is highly
recommended that you chose to be lawful in order to get the hang of the
game before ever making a chaotic character.

The mud will now ask you to make up a password. This can be anything from 3
to 14 characters in length. There are certain criteria you have to follow
when making your password. First it must be from 6 to 12 characters in
length. It must contain at least 2 letters and it must contain at least 2
numbers or special characters. Lastly, it must contain no leading or
trailing spaces. You can change your password later in the game by typing
PASSWORD at the prompt. Do to not lose your password. The staff does not
give out password information. Pick something that is easy to remember or
easy to type.

After this, you are ready to go! You should appear in the Origin of Life and
there will be three doorways in front of you. The first thing you should do
is type HELP POLICY. This explains all our policies. You may not understand
some of the terminology in the file, but it still needs to be read so you
can be familiar with what you can and cannot do. You will learn what it all
means later.


COMMUNICATIONS

There are several ways to communicate in Realms of Hell. This is important
for player interaction as well as survival in most cases. Following is a
list of all communication commands and their syntax.

say
                Syntax: say (message) or ' (message)
   Say is used to speak to others in the same room as you are. Everyone
   currently in the room can see what you say. If you are not visible, you
   will appear as "someone" when you talk.


yell
                Syntax: yell (message)
   Yell is similar to say, but with one difference. When you yell something,
   not only can everyone in the current room see what you are yelling, but
   all others in adjacent rooms will hear what you yell as well. People in
   other rooms will see what you say as "someone" since they are not in the
   room to see who is yelling. Once again, if you are not visible, all those
   currently in the room with you will see you as "someone".


gtalk
                Syntax: gtalk (message) or gt (message)
   If you are traveling in a group, meaning you followed someone or they
   followed you, you can gtalk. This means that whatever you say is only seen
   by you and those people who are following you or you are following. To see
   who all is in the group you are currently in, you can type PART or GROUP
   to see. Once again, if you are not visible, you will appear as "someone"
   to all people who cannot detect you.


send or tell
                Syntax: send (message) (person) or tell (message) (person)
   Send and tell are used for private communications between players. No one
   but you and the person you are sending the message to can see what you are
   saying. This can be done anywhere in the game from one point to the other.
   Think of it as a type of telepathy. Once again, if you are not visible,
   you will appear as "someone" to the person you send the message to unless
   they can detect you. On the same note, if the person you wish to send a
   message to is invisible, you must be detecting them in order to send
   anything to them.


classsend
                Syntax: cls (message) or classsend (message)
   Classsend is used to send a message to all others of your same class who
   are currently logged on. For example if you are a fighter, then all
   fighters currently logged on will see your message. You can type "who" to
   see the class of everyone currently logged on, and you can type "who
   fighter" to see only the fighters. As with the other communication
   commands so far, if you are not visible, you will appear as "someone" to
   all people of your class who are not detecting you.


clansend
                Syntax: clan (message) or clansend (message)
   Clansend is similar to classsend above, but the people who see your
   message are only those who currently belong to the same clan as you.
   For the purposes of this command, clerics pledged to certain gods will
   use the chat channel of another clan. For example, anyone pledged to
   the Crusaders of Enoch will also be able to speak with clerics worshiping
   Enoch.


broadcast
                Syntax: broad (message) or broadcast (message)
   Broadcast is a method you use to send a message to all people currently
   logged onto the game. You must be level 2 before you are allowed to
   broadcast, although sometimes you are able to at level 1. You are allowed
   only a certain number of broadcasts per day, depending on your level, so
   use them wisely. If you are not visible, all people who do not detect you
   will see you as "someone" when you broadcast. Please remember that
   broadcasting excessive foul language can be insulting to some people, and
   thus is considered to be a player etiquette violation by us if continually
   done. For more information on this, check the player etiquette section in
   our policy by typing HELP POLICY.


ignore
                Syntax: ignore (person)
   Ignore is used to stop people from gtalking to you or using send and tell
   to send you messages. Sometimes people just get annoying and you may want
   to do this. Doing this will place the person on your ignore list. To
   remove them, you simply have to ignore them again.


gag
                Syntax: gag (person)
   Gag works similar to ignore. When you gag someone, you do not see any
   socials they do, anything they say, anything they broadcast, emote, and
   very few things they do at all.


emote
                Syntax: emote (action)
   Emote is used to make your character perform actions not covered by
   social commands (read below). It is used to perform actions and allow
   those in your current room to see what you do. For example, let's say
   your character is named Fred. If you were to type: "emote eats some
   chicken", everyone else in the room would see: "Fred eats some chicken."
   Note that you do NOT have to enter a period after what you do. Emote
   does that for you.


classemote
                Syntax: classemote (action) OR clem (action)
   A classemote is the same as an emote, but it works in a similar way to
   classsend above. The result is that everyone online of your class sees
   what you emote.

   Another method of communication is to use social commands. These can all
   be found bytyping HELP SOCIALS. These commands allow you to nod your
   head, shake your head, hug people, growl at people, slap people, kiss
   people, etc. The list goes on forever. They also help you in
   role-playing your character, which we highly encourage here at Realms.
   It makes the game more fun.

Note that help on any of the above commands can be accessed while you are
playing by typing HELP (commandname).



MOVEMENT

Movement can be accomplished in several ways in Realms of Hell. First of
all, you need to LOOK at the room you are in or just type "l". Listed are
"Obvious Exits:" These are the directions you may move. The directions
north, south, east, west, northeast, northwest, southeast, and southwest
can all be typed in order to move. Their abbreviations of n, s, e, w, ne,
nw, se, sw can also be used. In fact, most people use the abbreviations.
Up, down, and out can also be typed to move in those directions. If you
see an exit such as a "jade door" or a "cave", you must type in: GO jade,
or GO cave. If the exit you wish to go through is closed, such as an "iron
door", you will probably need to type OPEN door. If a door is locked when
you try to open it, you must find the proper key and UNLOCK the door, or
use a thief to pick the lock. Sometimes exits are hidden. In this case,
you need to SEARCH the room. You may or may not find anything, and you
can search every 7 seconds. Some classes (rangers and druids) can search
better then others. Exits are sometimes invisible as well. To see them you
must be detecting invisibility. If an exit is both invisible AND hidden,
you must detect invisibility as well as search for it.

Realms of Hell has no movement allowance like most other MUDs. Instead, we
just make you slow down and wait three seconds if you try to move too fast.
The only way to avoid this is to be a druid which has the endurance ability.
This allows a druid to avoid the three second wait and run really fast from
place to place.

Sometimes you may be required to be flying to go through some exits. In this
case, you must find the proper spell or item and cast a fly spell on yourself
or have someone else do it.


OBJECT MANIPULATION

In order to play Realms of Hell, you must know how to manipulate objects in
your inventory and on the ground. There are several commands which allow you
to do this. Note that in the following explanations, wherever you see [ ],
these are OPTIONAL parts as far as how the commands work(syntax). Things in
( ) are parameters, or things the commands must act on. For example, in "get
(item) [#] [container]", the (item) is an item name of something on the
floor, and the [#] would mean an optional number. In this case it would be
used if you saw two of the same thing on the ground. To get the second thing
you would put 2 where # is.The [container] means an optional bag or backpack
item name if getting the item from there and not from the floor.

Inventory
                Syntax: inventory or i
   This command will allow you to look at all your character is carrying.
   You may only carry a certain amount. The higher your strength is, the
   more you are able to carry. Note that you must never have more then 100
   items in your inventory. If you do, then they may disappear. This is ANY
   item. 20 of the same item count as 20 items not one.


Equipment
                Syntax: equipment or eq
   This command will allow you to see what all your character is wearing
   and what weapon he/she is using/wielding. If you are ever killed by a
   player, then all of the things you are wearing and wielding will be
   dropped on the floor. No one but a thief can ever get to your inventory,
   and then only if you are chaotic.


Wear
                Syntax: wear (item) [#]/[all]
   Wear is the command you use to put on items that are armor. You can
   then see if you are wearing them with the Equipment command. If you "wear
   all" your character will put on all items of armor in your inventory in
   alphabetical order. Note that sometimes items you can wear are cursed. If
   this is the case, you can not take them off. Be careful. Also note that
   mages and liches are severely limited in the types of armor they may wear,
   and that monks and werewolves may not wear any protective armor at all.


Remove
                Syntax: remove (item) [#]/[all] OR rm (item) [#]/[all]
   This command allows you to take off armor and/or weapons so they are not
   worn and/or ready. If you "remove all", your character will remove all
   armor and weapons he/she is wearing/wielding. Most people will "remove
   all" quite often if they are chaotic, as if they are killed by a player
   while wearing things, all those things are lost when they die. Note that
   some items are cursed. If this is the case and you are wearing/wielding
   a cursed item, it cannot be removed until yourself or someone else casts
   a remove-curse spell on you.


Wield
                Syntax: wield (weapon) [#]
   This command is used in order to wield/ready a weapon for use in combat.
   Note that some classes such as mages and liches are extremely limited in
   the types of weapons they may use. Also, monks and werewolves are only
   able to use weapons specifically designed for their classes.


Use
                Syntax: use (item) [#] [(target [#])]
   This is an all-purpose object use command. It will take the place of
   wear, wield, drink, zap, etc... If you don't know what an object is or
   does, use the use command. However, be careful, because if you use a
   wand and don't indicate a target, you could cast a damaging spell on
   yourself. For using weapons, it is highly recommended you use the wield
   command, since use sometimes gets confused and can cause you problems
   when you try to wield something that is spelled the same as your weapon
   but isn't a weapon. This can get you killed sometimes if it delays you a
   second or so to try to wield the right thing.


Get/Take
                Syntax: get (item) [all]/[#] [(Container [#])] or get all
   This command allows you to get items from the floor or out of containers
   in your inventory. If there is more then one item you want on the floor
   of the same name, and you do not want the first one, you must indicate
   you want the second one by placing a 2 after the item name. For example:
   There are 2 swords on the ground. To get the second one you would type:
   "get sword 2". If you wish to get something from a container such as a
   bag, let's say a sword, you would type: "get sword bag". If you wanted
   to get the sword from the second bag of the same type in your inventory,
   you would type: "get sword bag 2". If you wanted to get the 2nd sword
   of the same type within the 2nd bag of the same type, you would type:
   "get sword 2 bag 2". If you wish to get everything out of a bag, you
   can type: "get all bag". If you wish to get everything on the ground in
   a room, you may type: "get all". However, we discourage you from doing
   this if someone else is in the room around you, as it is not good player
   etiquette to do so.


Put
                Syntax: put (object) [all]/[#] (container) [#]
   This command lets you put items in container type objects such as bags
   or leather backpacks. Bags have a limited amount that can fit in them,
   and some bags negate the weight of the items inside them. If you wish
   to put all of your inventory into a bag, you may type: "put all bag".
   However, keep in mind that the mud will go through your inventory in
   alphabetical order when it chooses what order to put the items in the
   bag, and it will not exceed the bags maximum capacity.


Drop
                Syntax: drop (item) [#] OR drop all
   This command lets your character drop items in the current room they
   are in. Use the [#] option in order to drop different items of the
   same name. For example, if you have 4 gems in your inventory and want
   to drop the 3rd one, you would type: "drop gem 3". If you wish to
   drop your entire inventory (which is usually not a good thing to do)
   you may type:  "drop all".


GAME MECHANICS

   In order to play the game you must know how the game works. Knowing
the meaning of some general terms will help as well. This section will
explain the basics to you.

Hit Points
   Hit points, sometimes called HP, are what determines how much health
your character currently has. When these reach zero or below, your
character dies. As you get more powerful and advance in levels, you get
more hit points depending on your class. Your hit points are shown on
your prompt. The prompt looks like: (22 H 2M). Depending on your class
and level, the numbers will be different. In this case, the hit points
shown are 22. Over time your hit points regenerate at certain intervals.
This is called "ticking" by most people. Another way to get hit points
back is to have people cast vigor or mend-wound spells on you, or to
cast them on yourself.

Magic Points
   Magic points (called MP too) are what you use to cast spells. Nearly
all classes in Realms can cast spells, but some are better then others.
For example, berserkers cannot cast spells at all, while a lich or mage
are both excellent spell casters. Each spell you cast costs a certain
amount of MP to cast. You can find out how much by typing "help
(spellname)" whenever you are online. Over time your magic points
regenerate just like hit points do. Your current MP is shown on the
prompt to the left of the M next to your hit points. Note that if you
are a lich, you do not cast with your MP, but with your HP instead.
Liches do not have MP.

Experience and Leveling
   The power of your character is dependent on what level he/she is.
Characters on Realms can get all the way to level 30. In order to gain
levels, you must gain experience. There are several ways to do this.
The most common is by killing monsters. Note that "monster" refers to
any mobile creature on the mud, whether it be acity guard, a dragon, or
a lost kitten. Each type monster is worth a different amount of
experience. If you fight in a group, the experience is divided amongst
the entire group when the monster dies, but not necessarily evenly.
There are several factors involved. Another way to gain experience is
to do quests. Quests are puzzles in the game that you complete to gain
items or complete tasks. Each one is worth a different amount of
experience. Each level also requires a certain amount of gold to level.
This is half of your total experience to level. After certain number
of levels you will be required to obtain items to prove your skill
to level. If you die you will lose a certain percentage of your total
exp which may cause you to delevel. However, when releveling it
doesnњt require gold or the item again. It will automatically relevel
you once enough experience points are obtained.


Training
   When you have gained enough experience to level, you must train. To
do this you must first have enough gold. Training costs money. To
figure out how much you need, simply type "info". You then find your
total experience and add that to your experience needed to level. Half
of this final number is how much gold you require to level. After you
have the gold, you must find your training location. The absolute best
way to do this is to ask players online. You also may find Xenis the
Sage off of Trade Street in Highport, and type "talk xenis training".
He will give you a hint. Some classes must fight an opponent to level,
some may have to buy a key, and others simply walk into the room and
train. When you are in your training room and are ready to train,
simply type "train". Congratulations! You made a level!

Good and Evil Alignment
   There are two parts to alignment: chaotic or lawful, and good,
neutral, and evil. Monsters are always either good, neutral, or evil
in alignment. For them, chaotic or lawful does not matter. Some
monsters are more evil or good then others, and neutral monsters are
extremely rare. Monster alignment affects you by changing your own
alignment. If you kill a good monster, you will move more towards
evil, and if you kill an evil monster, you will move more towards
good. Killing a neutral monster doesn't change your alignment at all.
Some classes, such as Death Knights, Paladins, and Liches, must remain
a certain alignment to avoid losing powers or gaining penalties. In
general, unless you are one of these classes, it is bad to be at either
alignment extreme. At alignment extremes, you will start fumbling your
weapons more, and your spells may start to fail. How can you tell if
you are good or evil? Well, to do this, you must have the know-aura
spell cast on you. Your aura will change color depending on what
alignment you are. If you have ANSI set (type SET ANSI to turn it on)
your prompt will change colors based on your alignment. A paladin can
always naturally detect auras around them. Basically, when you see
that you are at one extreme, you can use know-aura to find monsters
of the same alignment and kill them to get back to neutral alignment.
Depending on your class, neutral alignment is where you want to stay
whenever possible. Paladins must remain good, death knights must
remain evil, and liches must remain evil.

Magical Realms
   Each of your magical realms has a percentage. Over time these
percentages increase with the damage you do and the experience you
gain from killing with spells. The higher the percentage is, the more
damage your spells will do in that realm. In total there is 6 magical
realms: earth, air, fire, water, electricity, and cold.  The first
four basic elements are easier to obtain while electricity and cold
is harder. Some creatures and perms might resist magic or a certain
element, however there is a low chance of them resisting electricity
or cold which is why it is more rare. Each elemental realm has five
levels of spells and an area spell.


Proficiencies
   You have six weapon proficiencies. At character creation you pick
one that gets 20% in it initially. If you are a fighter you pick two.
Over time, the proficiencies go up with the damage you do and
experience you gain. The higher the percentage is, the more likely
(depending on your class) you are to do critical hits, and the less
likely you will fumble a weapon in that proficiency. Note that just
because you pick specific proficiencies at character creation, this
doesn't mean that you can only use those proficiencies. You can use
any of them. The ones you pick at creation simply give you a head
start in them.

Dying
   There are three types of death: dying to a monster, dying to a
player, and dying to a damaging room or trap. When you die to a
monster, you drop the weapon you were wielding where you died. You
also lose a percentage of your total experience based on your level.
Below level 5 you lose 10%. After that, it's always 15%. Death to a
player is handled a little differently. First off, you don't lose
any experienced unless pledged to a clan and killed by someone else
in a clan. You also drop all you were wearing and wielding where
you died. There are no player corpses in this mud, so corpse
retrievals are not necessary. As mentioned, experience loss only
happens if both people are pledged to a clan. If someone of your
own clan kills you, then you both lose experience. If someone from
a different clan kills you, they gain experience and you lose 2x
what they gained. The amount of experience they gain depends on
your level. Note that Paladins and Death Knights always lose and
gain experience when they kill one another. Pledging to a clan is
not necessary for them. If you die to a damaging room or trap, you
lose 10% of your total experience and do not lose any equipment.
Traps can be avoided by preparing for them. HELP PREPARE.

Mudmail
   Mudmail is how players can communicate to one another and to
caretakers and dungeonmasters. To do this you find a post office.
Once in a post office, you may do one of three commands: readmail,
sendmail (person), or deletemail. No more then 80 characters per
line may be typed, and you type a period on a line by itself to
end your message.


Combat

   Combat is probably the most important thing to be informed on
when playing Realms. The following sections should familiarize
you with our system.

The System
   First and foremost, the combat system of Realms is NOT automatic.
You do not simply attack and let the mud do all the work for you.
Several other types of muds do this, but this is not the case with
mordor muds like ours. You must attack your enemy every 3 seconds or
so (2 seconds if you are a frenzied werewolf) and press enter. If you
fumble your weapon, you must wield it again.


Fleeing
   If you are getting hurt badly, the thing to do is to flee. When you
flee, you run to a random exit from the room and drop your wielded
weapon. Some people suggest removing your weapon before you flee.
Remember this though: A lost weapon is easily replaced. A loss of up
to 15% of your experience due to dying to a monster is not.

Acquiring Spells
   Spells must be acquired through studying scrolls. Most any spell
can be learned by any player. To gain a spell, you must find a scroll,
and then "study" that scroll. Sometimes these are not scrolls per say,
but can be stone tablets or magical feathers, or something else similar.
As mentioned, a spell may only be cast if you have the current magic
points to cast it.

Offensive Spells
   Realms has several offensive spells. As mentioned before, some classes
are much better at casting at others. These classes' (mages and liches
mostly) primary method of attack is to cast spells, since they aren't
very good at physical combat. By making use of the stun spell, enemies
can be devastated by these classes. As in attacking normally, time must
be spent between casting spells. The classes who cast better (mages and
liches) do not wait as long as other classes between casts.

Saving System
   A new system of saving throw resistances have been implemented in
the game. The saving throws are broken down into 5 categories:

     Poison/Disease        Death/Traps
     Breath/Explosions     Mental Attacks
     Spells.

Your resistance of each category can be viewed by typing "score". The
resistances range from Normal to Immune. To raise the saving throws you
have to build of resistance. For example, if you want spell resistance
to go up, you have to keep be hit by spells by monsters. The advantage
of having high resistance is that with higher resistance you will be
unaffected or for minimal damage. For example, sometimes you will save
a spell cast on you and only receive half the damage. This will occur
more as your resistance to spells increases.

Armor Class
   Your armor class, or AC, is what keeps you protected in battle. The lower
this number is, the safer you are, because monsters have more of a problem
hitting you. You can improve your AC by getting and wearing armor, which can
be found in many shops, and also is dropped by some monsters when they die.
After a time, your armor will break. When this happens, you can find a
repair shop and get it fixed. Some armor cannot be fixed, however. Note that
some classes (Monks, Werewolves, and Liches) have natural AC and do not wear
armor. In addition, almost no armor fits mages, as they cannot wear it due
to their need to be free of constraints to cast their spells. In addition,
several classes require the armor they wear to be "light". These classes
are: thieves, assassins, rogues, druid.

To find out more information about combat, just type "help" from the command
line. Listed are several topics under the subheading of Combat. You may type
"help (commandname)" in order to learn more about each. Also, you should be
aware of your classes abilities. Many of them are used in combat. Each
classes' abilities are listed in The Book of Knowledge. You can then link
to our online help from each class description to learn what each ability
does.

HELPFUL HINTS

   There are several helpful hints which will help you as you begin to
play Realms.

Choose Your Class Wisely
   It is highly recommended that you do not play certain classes when
starting out. These are:

     Monk     Lich
     Mage     Druid
     Multi-class characters

All of these classes are more difficult and it is best to play them
once you have more of a grasp for the game and the system. We
recommend playing:

     Berserker  Werewolf
     Paladin    Fighter

These classes are relatively simple to get used to. Also, keep in mind
that some classes are required to pledge to a clan, thus allowing you to
be killed by players from another or the same clan whether you are lawful
or not. These classes are: fighters, assassins, thieves, clerics,
paladins, rogues, and death knights. Keep in mind also that death knights
can always be killed by paladins and vice versa. This can make them a bad
choice for a starting player. Choosing the right class will definitely
help you as a beginner.

Look Before You Leap
   Before you attack anything, you should always look at it first. This
will give you a general indication as to whether the monster is ok for you
to kill. Note that this is NEVER an absolute indicator. Just because it says
something is easy to kill, does not ever mean it will always be easy for you
to kill. Some classes are better at combat then others. Others, like monks
and werewolves, get better at combat all around as they level, so they are
bad fighters at low level but very dangerous at high level. If a monster
casts, you can be sure looking at it is most likely not an effective
indicator. Basically, looking can help you, especially at lower levels.
However, as you advance in level, it is not as much help to you.

Be Careful Where You Fight
   At lower levels (1 and 2), we advise you to not to leave the area in
which you start. This area has monsters in it designed specifically for
players who are learning. Some of the monsters are tough, however, especially
the ones that cast (although in the square these are few and far between). In
the square, it is usually safe for you to look at something and be able to
tell if you can kill it or not. If you are new and wish to venture outside
this area, be sure you are careful or have a higher level friend you can
follow. The smaller towns to the south of Highport are also mostly designed
for lower level players.

Know When to Flee
   One of the biggest problems new players have is that they do not flee in
time if they are in trouble. It can and will always get you killed if you
wait until the last minute to attempt to flee. If you are getting beat up,
run away! You can always go back and kill something after you heal.

Ask Experienced Players to Help You
   You should always make friends in high places. This is the absolute BEST
way to learn about the game. Ask around for help. Sometimes they may be
busy, but keep trying. Eventually they won't be. We have several players
who are more then happy to set aside some of their time to help you.
Failing this, you can always go to a post office and mudmail a caretaker.
We are happy to answer the questions of new players, provided they fit
within the bounds of our policy.

Make Friends
   Realms is a much more enjoyable game if played in groups, and in order
to do this, you need friends to group with. Most of our players are very
friendly and will gladly help you or group with you. This also adds to the
interactive environment we wish to maintain here. In general making friends
makes the game much more enjoyable to everyone online.

Roleplay!!!!
   Roleplaying is the idea of making up an alternate personality then your
own and playing it online. This can be quite fun to do, especially when
everyone does it. Not only is it fun to do, but it can get you free
experience to help you level! If a staff member (DM or CT) sees you
roleplaying a lot, they will often award you experience for doing so! It's
simple to do, and it makes it easier for you to level.....So why not do it?

   We hope this file has helped you to get a head start. As mentioned,
we mostly always are available to you for suggestions and questions you
may have.
